F U T U R E O P P O R T U N I T I E S R E P O R T

THE GLOBAL 50

2 02 3


'Shaping the future cannot be
done by just waiting for it but
rather by utilizing the latest
technologies and knowledge
tools      and meeting its challenges
starting from today'

— H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum


FOREWORD

As we progress into a new chapter, with limitless technological
innovation, we begin to realise that long-term linear progressions are
no  longer common: the world has to deal with disruption and turbulence
without notice across nations, cities and communities. Confronted with
unexpected consequences, we begin to realise that the responsibility
lies    in our hands. In order to live the future that we want to see, we must
be prepared to tackle its challenges and start shaping it today.

It is our responsibility to model, empower and encourage future
generations to become agile and resilient, equipping them with
future-proof skills and widening their scope of knowledge.

Our responsibility today is also to collaborate with others, promoting
innovation and coordinated governance models to enhance growth,
prosperity and well-being for all. Through togetherness, we become
closer to opportunities and not only take a leap of faith, but a leap of
knowledge towards the betterment of humanity.

History, with its revolutionary inventions and shifts in wealth, proves
that human ingenuity can solve problems and lead the way for a better
tomorrow. Each generation has made its own contribution in striving for
the best.

But every once in a while, there needs to be a re-evaluation and when
we spot a better approach to the future, we need to change direction.
The goal is not to lament the past but to embrace the best of it and
move beyond it by taking on new opportunities. Trust, foresight and
adaptability are the qualities that will ensure the future we aspire to.
Change and uncertainty are the only constants.

We must put in place robust systems for future generations to recognise
and respond to change. We must also create capacities and processes
that enable them to recognise and manage the impact that uncertainties
and megatrends have on future societies, so that they can translate
global challenges into opportunities, where creative and innovative
solutions lie at the core of our prosperity, well-being and growth.


"In this era of drastic changes,
it is the ability to respond

to and overcome changing
landscapes that will determine
our battle not only for survival
but also for excellence."

This year’s Global 50 report provides an accessible framework to
encourage thoughtful reflection about the future: a navigation tool in
an   era of quantum shifts. We share the uncertainties, assumptions and
megatrends that will shape our future and present 50 opportunities
offering inspiration and insight across five categories.

In this era of drastic changes, it is the ability to respond to and overcome
changing landscapes that will determine our battle not only for survival
but also for excellence. The key word here is innovation.

Mohammad Abdullah Al Gergawi

Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees and
Managing Director of Dubai Future Foundation


THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               IV 


CONTENTS

Introduction                        1

Our View of The Future                3

Uncertainties                  4

Assumptions                   7

Megatrends                   10

Navigating The Global 50 Report         31

Navigating Opportunities              32

Opportunities Map                  33

The 50 Opportunities                34

Health Reimagined              34

Collaboration Advanced         75

Nature Restored               120

Societies Empowered            153

Transformational              194

Methodology                     239

Acknowledgements                 241

Glossary                        243

Bibliography                     254

References                      255


The 50 Opportunities           34

Health Reimagined              34


Redefine mental and physical health,
support longer lives, drawing on
both science, technology and nature
towards better health and new ways
to personalise access for individuals
and communities everywhere.

01  Fierce Fascia                    35

02  The Issue of Tissue                 39

03  Biohacking 2.0                   43

04  No More Waiting Room               47

05  Sound of Silence                  51

06  Your Memories, Edited               55

07  Tech-Free Urban Planning             59

08  33 Years in Bed                   63

09  Electromagnetic Shield              67

10  Breaking the Old Mould              71

Collaboration Advanced         75


Enhance problem-solving,
innovation and trust by redesigning
collaborative structures and
processes between humans –
including across generations

as well as between machines and
between humans and machines.

11   AI at the Whiteboard               76

12  Humans Versus Machine             80

13  From Public 'Good' To 'Great'           84

14  Agreeing to Disagree As One            88

15  All-Generation Directorships           92

16  Rules for Space, Inc.                96

17  A Wide World of Data               100

18  Universal Universe Goals             104

19  The Ultimate Climate Calculator         108

20  Deeper Thought                 112

21  Crossing the Divide                116

Nature Restored               120


Minimise environmental risks,
harness nature’s capacity to restore
itself or have a positive impact on
crucial environmental ecosystems
and habitats, creating a more stable,
healthier planet for all.

22  A Walk on the Rewild Side             121

23  Multipurpose Wheels               125

24  Make It 100                    129

25  Let That (Carbon) Sink In             133

26  Ice Uncapped                   137

27  Mission Accomplished              141

28  ‘Mobile’ Super Scrubbers             145

29  Waterless Farms                 149


Societies Empowered            153


Empower societies by offering
solutions to humanity’s most
complex and universal needs,
optimising systems they rely on,
safeguarding risks that could make
societies more fragile in the face

of crises and extending individual
and collective potential for growth
and development.

30  DAOs For Social Good               154

31  Whole-Planet Voting               158

32  Service As A Standard              162

33  A Policy’s True Measure              166

34  Calling Out Herd Mentality            170

35  A Digital Realities Convention of Rights      174

36  Quantum Avatar                 178

37  Online Kerb Appeal                182

38  Not a Token Gesture               186

39  Secondary No More                190

Transformational              194


The power to radically change
ways of life by replacing the models
that countries, communities and

individuals live by. These new models
enable individuals and communities
to innovate and improve and aid the
transformation of humanity to new
digital and non-digital realities.

40  Infinite 'Solar' Energy               195

41  Law And Order For Web 3.0            199

42  Accounting For Innovation            203

43  Hatches, Tubes And Robot Dispatches      207

44  Fresh Threads                  211

45  Going All-Digital                 215

46  Gross Domestic Future (GDF)           219

47  Earth X-Ploration                 223

48  Space As Storage                 227

49  ESG-F: Into The Future              231

50  Telepossible                   235


INTRODUCTION

The purpose of the Global 50 report is to promote growth, prosperity
and well-being. By going through the creative process of imagining
future possibilities, we are offering ideas and opportunities for a better
tomorrow.

In The Global 50 report published in 2022, we outlined our own view on
the future. We listed 50 opportunities to motivate decision-makers in
government, business and civil society to search for untapped potential.
We wanted to describe in detail the era of quantum shifts (see box 2)
and explore its varied opportunities. We defined the future as one where
rapid changes occur within regions, nations, cities and communities.

Sometimes shifts in our own perceptions may take place, expectedly or
unexpectedly, suddenly, or gradually, in various extremes (Dubai Future
Foundation, 2022).

We are repeating this formula in 2023. But this time we are diving
deeper. Our vision of the future encompasses reflections on how our
understanding of global uncertainties evolve together with takeaways
on the assumptions and megatrends we view as relevant to how we
navigate the future.

As you read through the 50 new opportunities this year, we hope that
what comes to mind is what we envisaged when brainstorming ideas
for the future: the boundless potential of human creativity. From
one idea comes another. That is how humanity evolves. Most of us want
a better life and, through the formulation of ideas focused on growth,
prosperity and well-being, we hope that this year’s opportunities will
inspire greater accomplishments and innovations.



TODAY

Growth is the increase

in the total output of goods
and services in an economy
over time.

TOMORROW

Growth could go beyond
economic factors, for example by
accounting for negative impacts,
to create a measure

of net-positive growth.

Prosperity is a life of dignity
and stability. It is a life free from
the threats of poverty or harm.
It includes access to suitable
employment opportunities and
services such as education and
healthcare. But human beings

have a tendency to rapidly adjust
their expectations.

Prosperity may encompass
similar factors but set the
bar higher. Prosperous
societies may offer access to
personalised education and
healthcare services. They
may  seek to make available
alternative means to earn

a living, whether through
employment, entrepreneurship
or creativity. People will crave
more life choices and a more
supportive environment in
which   to make them.

Well-being today is defined
by a good state of mental
and physical health and
feelings of life satisfaction.

But the definition of well-being
is always in flux.

Well-being could be more
about feelings of self-
realisation. Advances in
medicine  and technology could
lead to a greater ability to
overcome mental and physical
health issues. There may be a
renewed emphasis on positive
social interactions and a sense
of belonging conducive to self-
esteem. This would place new
demands and expectations on
the state and society.

Box 1 Definitions of Growth, Prosperity and Well-being a

The opportunities shared in this report are not exhaustive; they present
some of the different pathways and approaches to growth,
prosperity and well-being. They offer possibilities for major advances
in   our quality of life while raising profound questions for society to
resolve. Some opportunities will be more pertinent than others. Some
contexts may have the conditions in place to share in the benefits,
others  may not. Equally, the risks relating to some opportunities

might not be limited to those countries or businesses exploiting the
opportunities directly: risks often travel faster than benefits.

The next 50 years are set to bring both unprecedented challenges
and vast new technological possibilities. However, some countries
and societal groups will be better able than others to manage the
uncertainties, meet the challenges and take advantage of the
opportunities.  The purpose of this report is to shift thinking from
‘What  will happen in the future?’ to ‘How can we best prepare to
improve or protect growth, prosperity and well-being?’,
whatever  that future might be.

a Slight adjustments to definitions in the 2022 Global 50 Report


OUR VIEW OF
THE FUTURE

Our view of the future — when it comes to growth, prosperity and
well-being — in the next 50 years is shaped by three interrelated
aspects: uncertainties, assumptions and megatrends

(Dubai Future Foundation, 2022).

While assumptions and megatrends are relatively stable and known,
how the uncertainties will materialise is less so. On a continuum,
uncertainties can radically distort socio-economic and environmental
conditions and for each uncertainty, there is a range of conceivable
outcomes. They differ from time to time and place to place and

can have a dramatic impact on growth, prosperity and well-being.
With assumptions, megatrends and other global trends, they are
all interconnected and can have multiple implications for growth,
prosperity and well-being.


UNCERTAINTIES

Uncertainties in science are bounded by conditions that provide
explanations under a specific set of circumstances. These explanations
are   not influenced by the person making the observation and they
remain unaffected if more people become aware of such a possibility
(Scoones, 2019). Social phenomena, however, are ultimately
uncertain and, especially in this era of quantum shifts, they cannot be
controlled like physical phenomena.

We are entering an era of ‘quantum shifts’ (Dubai Future
Foundation, 2022). Indeed, we may already be in it. The term
‘quantum’ originates in quantum theory, where it denotes an
abrupt transition from one energy state to another by atomic and
subatomic particles. More broadly we use it to describe the rapid,
disruptive and dramatic changes that we are starting to see

in technology, business, government, medicine, culture and
other areas.

Quantum thinking also embraces the concept of ‘entanglement’
(Wikipedia, n.d.), the idea that the behaviour of objects can be
correlated even when they are remote from each other. This

can be related to the intertwined complex relationships and
interconnections that determine how the future may play out.
Some     forces can drive societies in opposite directions, while some
innovations can enable them to move forward together in progress.

When such changes occur swiftly, we describe them as ‘quantum
shifts’ or ‘quantum leaps’. The message of this report is that many
such shifts can be managed to have a positive impact if we only
recognise the opportunities that lie ahead.

Box 2 Era of Quantum Shifts

In the social sciences, predictions cease to hold as soon as many
participants or observers become aware of them. They act in response,
either  to take advantage of the prediction or to mitigate perceived risks.
This means that predictions are valid only for a limited time, the length
of which we cannot be sure of since we need to constantly factor in
everyone’s actions, not only those in the community of interest but also
others around the world (Klemens, 2020).


Uncertainties are highly systemic, with implications for multiple
systems. They are relevant at the global, regional and national levels.
What’s more, they are beyond the control of any one country or region.
They are subject to events, such as economic downturns, that could
drive them in any of several directions over multiple decades (Dubai
Future Foundation, 2022). As uncertainties shift or as an uncertain
event  — or something for which we are not prepared – unfolds, we think
about the related effects and impact. By thinking through scenarios,
we can also think about our responses to these events.

While we cannot predict the future, we can explore how, in various
extreme circumstances, uncertainties can influence work and life,
in both local and global communities. The knowledge gained from
this exploration allows us to manage the impacts that uncertainties
may have on growth, prosperity and well-being – some of which are
shared in this year’s report. We also recognise that by involving an
extended global peer community in collaborative foresight, we can

explore futures while recognising that our involvement will also influence
evolution towards a more favourable outcome, determining how futures
are shaped.

COLLABORATION

A CONTINUUM FROM MULTILATERAL TO MULTIPOLAR

When it comes to collaboration and possible implications for growth,
prosperity and well-being, more effective governance models would
build trust and enable data flows – for example in global health data-
sharing. New models would allow regions and cities to collaborate,
promoting innovation, and coordinated governance models could
enhance new trade flows and sustainable economic development. In
contrast, a lack of collaboration results in interoperability problems,
hindering innovation and slowing progress in areas such as scaling
mobility or resource solutions. It can also mean failure to reach
global agreement on ethical or scientific standards, leading to radical
differences in health, wealth and the environment, in associated
capabilities and in ideas about what it means to be human.

VALUES

A CONTINUUM FROM UNIVERSAL TO UNIQUE

When it comes to values and possible implications for growth,
prosperity and well-being, countries and cities may actively promote
inclusion and social cohesion, while education improves understanding
and tolerance, enabling societies to become more diverse and
innovative and to share and benefit from new values. In contrast,

in the opposite sense, values may diverge about issues such as data
privacy, health technologies and environmental stewardship, with value
divisions damaging social cohesion and threatening social stability as
neutral sources of information also erode.


TECHNOLOGY

A CONTINUUM FROM MULTIPLIER TO MASTER

When it comes to technology and possible implications for growth,
prosperity and well-being, intelligent connected systems can improve
access to services and quality of life, opening up new ways to realise
human potential. Technologies can optimise mobility and resource
usage, reducing costs and environmental impact, and new models of
data protection will allow sharing for the common good. At the same
time, technology may take a different turn as surveillance becomes

all-encompassing, diminishing privacy and well-being. Automation and
artificial intelligence (AI) may have impacts on society – at a minimum,
reduced employment at all levels (from low to high skilled) – posing
problems for incomes and distribution systems.

NATURE

A CONTINUUM FROM RENEWAL TO DEGRADATION

When it comes to nature and possible implications for growth,
prosperity and well-being, new materials and engineering techniques
can reduce waste and offer new solutions for food, water and energy.
Reversing the degradation of lands and shifting to renewables and
alternative fuels can reduce emissions while, at the same time,
sustainable consumption becomes the norm. However, as cities lead the
way  on energy, waste and food and water security solutions, they also
increase pressure on the environment through raised demands for food,
water and energy. Climate change may force mass migration in the most
affected regions. As important ecosystems degrade, creating a domino
effect, rising ocean temperatures may impact on marine food chains and
exacerbate weather events in terms of both frequency and severity.

SYSTEMS

A CONTINUUM FROM FRAGILE TO RESILIENT

When it comes to systems and possible implications for growth,
prosperity and well-being, AI’s problem-solving capacity may enable
systems  to continuously adapt to contextual changes to achieve greater
resilience. At the same time, novel forms of trade, manufacturing and
markets may enable more flexibility. However, interconnected intelligent
systems may create new vulnerabilities for critical infrastructure and for
digitalised services, such as finance, banking and legal. If supply chain
complexity grows more quickly than our capacity to mitigate risks (from
cyberattacks to extreme weather events), interconnected, automated
systems  may become less stable.


ASSUMPTIONS

An assumption is a trend that we think is here to stay for a long time.
Times change, but assumptions stay much the same. Even if external
events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, cause shifts, assumptions are
expected to remain stable over time (Fergnani, 2021). Assumptions
can   be assigned probabilities. They can change direction but, unlike
uncertainties, they tend to be predictable.

The Dubai Future Foundation views assumptions as guideposts
that help us think about how social and technological change will
shape the way we live. While this report shares four assumptions,
others are mentioned in our supplementary report found online on
Navigating the Future for Growth, Prosperity and Well-being
(Dubai Future Foundation, 2023).


Assumption

LIVES WILL BE LONGER AND HEALTHIER


SIGNALS TO WATCH

• Average life expectancy and
mortality rates

• Age distributions, proportion
of population:

• aged 5 and under

• aged 65 years or over

• aged 80 years or over

SIGNALS TO WATCH

• Average global temperature

• Level of greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere

• Climate change-driven poverty and
migration, particularly in Sub-Saharan
Africa and South Asia

• Water shortages and crop production
levels

• Biome distributions and coral reef
population levels

The assumption that lives will be longer and healthier is driven by the
confidence that technology and better access to health services will
improve our lives. Improvements in hygiene, nutrition and lifestyle will
continue, particularly as we make improvements as we respond to
climate change through innovation.

Some implications for growth, prosperity and well-being:

• Increased sharing of intergenerational wisdom1

• Longer careers and productivity

• New business opportunities to serve a growing population
aged over 65

• Further innovations in healthcare to improve health and
well-being in the older years2

• Increased risk of disease and disability with age

• Increased government spending on pensions, healthcare
and social care

• Greater mental health concerns due to loneliness3

Assumption

CLIMATE CHANGE WILL PERSIST

Driven by both human-caused pollution and natural causes, climate
change will continue to be with us. Technological advances and global
collaboration will not be enough to counter climate change. Global
temperatures are expected to continue to rise. Emissions will continue
to increase.4

Implications for growth, prosperity and well-being:

• Increased technological innovation to tackle complex
climate change problems

• Changes in biodiversity due to warmer climates

• Increased poverty and migration due to rising sea levels
and other climate change impact

• Food security issues due to desertification and land degradation

• Difficulties for humans, animals and plants to flourish due to
climate change


Assumption

INEQUALITIES WILL CONTINUE


SIGNALS TO WATCH

• Average adult income and value
of assets

• Total income levels in the richest
and poorest 10% of the population

• Proportion of children not in
full-time education

• Access to the internet, quality
of connectivity

SIGNALS TO WATCH

• Supercomputing performance

• Information Technology (IT) and smart
technologies market size

and growth

• Global digital competitiveness

• Cost savings associated with
technological advances in:

• genomics and precision medicine

• space travel

• other sectorspopulation levels

Inequality is expected to persist.5 Incomes vary between countries.
Access to technology and education is not universal. Discrimination,
marginalisation and lack of legal rights continue to inhibit the flourishing
of    some minorities. Not everyone has access to the opportunities offered
by urban environments or effective approaches to climate change. This
accounts for why inequalities will continue.6

Implications for growth, prosperity and well-being:

• New innovative approaches to tackling inequality, including social
entrepreneurship and social impact bonds

• A strengthened civil society sector

• Greater engagement and volunteerism with awareness
of social inequality7

• Persistent intergenerational and community poverty with
increased feelings of negativity and discouragement

• Increased crime and violence along with low trust of authority8

• Reduced life expectancy and access to water, education and
healthcare

Assumption

TECHNOLOGY WILL CONTINUE TO ADVANCE

Technology drives growth.9 Increased investment, rising intellectual
capital, new materials that make infrastructure cheaper and more
sustainable: these are the factors that create shifts in wealth. With
increased participation by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
in technological innovation and easier access to renewable sources of
energy, technology will continue to advance.

Implications for growth, prosperity and well-being:

• Creation of new jobs in new areas of technological advances

• Faster transition to sustainable ways of living and production

• Improved connectivity across global communities and
populations

• Improved connectivity and access to data, leading to better
understanding and more research to solve global challenges

• Increased technological vulnerabilities and threats to consumer
and individual privacy from ubiquitous data collection

• Possible negative effects on mental and physical health (isolation,
anxiety, eye strain, poor posture, reduced sleep and less physical
activity)10

• Loss of jobs from automation and AI


MEGATRENDS

As opposed to uncertainties and assumptions, megatrends
are applicable over a shorter period of time. In our approach,

megatrends are research-led thematic paths that are expected
to have a significant impact on economies and societies globally.
They are anticipated to affect growth, prosperity and well-being
either positively or negatively, with impacts extending over a
decade or more.

Megatrends may be defined in various ways; however, they are generally
agreed to be complex, large and interrelated. Like the assumptions,

the megatrends in The Global 50 give decision-makers a vantage
point on what opportunities may materialise in the contexts of growth,
prosperity and well-being. The megatrends may change, particularly
as  they intersect with the uncertainties, and new ones may become

a priority. That is why, to enhance our foresight, we engaged with
experts and conducted a desk-based review of annual trends and
futures reports as research for The Global 50 report.

This section was informed by our own desk-based research and
reflections on the megatrends. While they are presented individually,
it  should be kept in mind that their interrelated nature means that they
overlap. Where we mention drivers, trends and signals, these are not

exhaustive, and for each of the megatrends we provide a combination of
some facts about the situation today and some forecasts for the future.
We also share three areas of future opportunity in each megatrend that
may be of interest to both decision-makers and individuals.


MEGATREND 1

MATERIALS
REVOLUTION

Materials are fundamental to all products, foods, medicines and drinks
that we consume on a daily basis. Driven by profound progress in
advanced machine intelligence and nanotechnology, increased research
activity and funding in the area of materials science, new opportunities
are arising in the use of materials in almost all industrial, technological
and consumer sectors.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Alternative Fuels
Graphene

Green Carbon Materials
Metallic Foam
Nanotechnology

Polymers
Responsive/Smart Materials
Self-Repairing Materials
Semiconductors

Synthetic Biology

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               11 


The estimated direct economic
impact of synthetic biology across
industries is close to

$4

TRILLION

over the next 10 to 20 years

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

SYNTHETIC BIOLOGY

Deploying synthetic biology-based
platforms outside lab settings could lead
to minimal human intervention in various
sectors such as agriculture, health and
climate action.11

Through gene-editing technologies,

micro-organisms can, in theory, make many
things otherwise produced in factories. In
synthetic meat production, half a gram of
cattle muscle could create as much as 2
billion kilograms of beef.12

Synthetic biology could also address 45%
of the world’s current disease burden.13

The estimated direct economic impact
of synthetic biology across industries —

from health, bioeconomy, green economy,
chemicals and others — is close to $4
trillion a year over the next 10–20 years.14

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

MATERIALS FOR CLIMATE CHANGE


There are many possibilities when it comes
to new materials and climate change.

Research in materials science made up
just over 12% of research into carbon-
capture technologies over the past

50 years (measured by number of
published outputs), with silica, polymers,
epoxides, graphene, porous carbons,
nanotubes and nanoparticles emerging
as promising areas for the future,15 along
with metal oxides.16

Metallic foams are compounds that
combine the strengths of metals and light
foams.17 Metallic foams as electrodes
could enable a low-cost method of
generating carbon-free hydrogen18 and
improve the performance of fuel cells.19

$70

BILLION

graphene semiconductor
market potential

$190

BILLION

global graphene

market potential in 2030

For example, driven by demand for light
vehicles and fuel-efficient passenger
vehicles, East Asia will account for

a significant share of the market for
aluminum foams. The global market for
aluminum foams is expected to grow at
a compound annual growth rate (CAGR)
of 4% between 2022 and 2030, reaching

revenues of almost $62 million by 2030.20

The global market for metallic foams
is expected to grow at a CAGR of 4.5%
between 2021 and 2030, reaching a

revenue of almost $133 billion by 2030.21

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

SEMICONDUCTORS

Semiconductors are the most fundamental
building block of the devices we use, the
cars we drive and the manufacturing and
supply chain systems that provide us with
food, packaging and medicine.22

By the end of 2022, the global semi-
conductor chip industry was estimated
to  be worth some $600 billion in revenue
and was concentrated in just a few
companies in a handful of countries.23

The global market
for metallic foams is expected
to reach revenue of almost

$133

BILLION

by 2030

Graphene, which may replace silicone

as the main material in semiconductors,24
is a nanomaterial that is carbon-based,
highly conductive, light and not
environmentally harmful.25 Graphene

has abundant possibilities ranging from
sensors and energy storage to electronics
and wearables.26

The global graphene market had an
average annual growth of 32% as of 202027
and, with an estimated $190 billion

market potential28 by 2030, the graphene
semiconductors market alone may be
worth $70 billion.29

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               12 


MEGATREND 2

DEVALUATION
OF RAW DATAb

The idea of data as currency30 gives rise to the notion that data
is a scarce resource. However, driven by technological advances

including quantum computing, blockchain, the Internet of Things
(IoT), automation and digital realities, data will become more available
within and for governments, businesses and society – and at volumes
and speeds not seen before. Enhanced by 5G, 6G, increased access

to the internet and an expected increase in the number of multilateral
agreements focused on systems and data interoperability, raw data will
be abundant.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Artificial Intelligence
Automation

Big Data

Cellullar (5G, 6G) and Broadband Networks
Data Analytics

Data Trust
Digital Trade

Internet of Things (IoT)
Open Data

Quantum Computing

b Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               13 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

UNLOCKING VALUE WITH CROSS-BORDER
OPEN DATA


Enhancing access to data and encouraging
data-sharing creates value for data holders,
and unlocks up to 50 times more value for
the wider economy.31

Endorsed in 2019 by the G20 nations, Data
Free Flow with Trust is a proposed guide-
line that is intended to boost data-sharing
across countries.32 ‘Open data’ could
unlock more than $3 trillion annually across
consumer finance, consumer products,
education, energy, healthcare, oil and gas
and transportation.33, 34

On average, data access and sharing may
generate social and economic benefits up
to 2.5% of GDP,35 and broad adoption of
open-data ecosystems could yield benefits
up  to 1.5% of GDP in 2030 in the European
Union, the United Kingdom and the United
States, and as much as 5% in India.36

‘Open data’

could unlock more than

$3

TRILLI N

annually across consumer finance,
consumer products, education,
energy, healthcare, oil and gas and

transportation


The United States is the largest market
for big data analytics, with spending

of more than

$110

BILLION

in 2021

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

BIG DATA ANALYTICS

Based on published academic articles in
2022, big data analytics has grown and will
continue to grow through applications in
healthcare, agriculture, human resources,
construction, sustainable finance, supply
chain management, hospitality, tourism
and more.37

Japan and China were the next two
largest markets, with spending reaching

$12 BILLION each

The global big data analytics market was
worth $231 billion in 2021 and is expected
to grow at a CAGR of 13%, reaching $550
billion by 2028.38

The United States is the largest market
for big data analytics, with spending

of more than $110 billion in 2021. Japan
and China were the next two largest
markets, with spending reaching around

$12 billion each.39

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

SYNTHETIC DATASETS


Vast data is needed to train machine-
learning models. Datasets are scarce,
costly to produce — in millions of dollars

— and often contain biases that impact a
model’s performance.40

Synthetic datasets are artificially generated
by an Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithm
that has been trained on a real dataset

to produce new data with all the same
characteristics as the original data but
which cannot be recreated, avoiding
associated privacy concerns.41

The global AI training dataset market is
expected to reach a value of $8.6 billion by
2030. The market is anticipated to expand
at a CAGR of 22% from 2022 to 2030.42

The global AI training dataset
market is expected to reach a value of

$8.6

BILLION

by 2030

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               14 


MEGATREND 3

TECHNOLOGICAL
VULNERABILITIESc

Thanks to a number of developments – such as biotechnology, gene
editing and new therapies in medicine and agriculture, ubiquitous
digitisation and automation and the spread of IoT-enabled wearables

– biological and technological vulnerabilities will be exploited with
increasing severity and frequency. Vulnerabilities and associated
threats   will also become more complex as they begin to cross industries,
technologies and geographies, more directly impacting every part of

life and work.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Biotechnology
Cloud Platforms
Cyberbiosecurity
Digitisation

Internet of Things (IoT)

Malware

Quantum Proofing
Ransomware

Zero Trust
Cybersecurity

c  Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               15 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND QUANTUM
ENCRYPTION


The World's Largest Economies

1.   
2.

3.

if cyberattacks were a country and
damage from cyberattacks its GDP

At the current rate of growth, damage from
cyberattacks will amount to about

$11 trillion annually by 2025, a 300%
increase from 2015 levels.43 If cyberattacks
were a country and damage from
cyberattacks its GDP, it would have the
world’s third-largest economy after the
United States and China.44

The cybersecurity market was valued at
approximately $220 billion in 2021 and is
expected to grow at a CAGR of almost 9%
between 2021 and 2026,45 reaching up to

$2 trillion.46

While AI can be leveraged to monitor
network security and datacentres,
providing timely alerts,47 quantum
cryptography can further enhance
algorithms and resist ongoing
cybersecurity threats.48

AI in cybersecurity market was worth
almost $15 billion in 2021 and is estimated
to reach $134 billion by 2030.49 The
quantum cryptography market is projected
to grow at a CAGR of 26%, reaching $1.6
billion by 2026 (from $323 million in
2019).50


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

CYBERBIOSECURITY

Growing demand in synthetic biology
and smart technologies will continue
to raise cyberbiosecurity risks and

increased risk of cyberattacks and these
may be underreported because of a lack
of detection capability.51 One day, all it
will take to create a threatening human
pathogen is internet access and the
ability   to create synthetic DNA through
advanced biotechnology.52

The precision agriculture — analytics-
driven farming based on detailed data from
sensors — market is expected to grow at a
CAGR of 8% between 2022 and 2030, from

$8.5 billion to $15.6 billion.53 Currently, the
average precision farm generates 500,000
data points per day; by 2036, this number
will have grown eight-fold,54 exposing the
agricultural sector to further cybersecurity
threats.

The global CRISPR gene-editing market
was valued at $1 billion in 2021 and is
predicted to reach $15 billion by 2030,
increasing at a CAGR of 30%.55

The average precision

farm generates

500,000

DATA
POINTS
PER   DAY

By 2036,

this number will have grown

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

CYBERSECURITY FOR SMALL BUSINESSES
AND CHARITIES


A breach in a

hybrid cloud environment

costs an average of

$3.8

MILLION

half a million less than a breach
in a private cloud and just

over a million less than a breach
in a public cloud

Cybersecurity laws, which also encompass
data protection requirements, are the main
way for governments to establish trust in
technology. Many cybersecurity laws are
managed through bilateral or multilateral
treaties or agreements.56 However, with
limited or non-existent cybersecurity,
small businesses and charities are more
vulnerable to cyberattacks.

For example, in a survey conducted in
the United Kingdom of over 120 charities
revealed that only half were fully aware
of  the potential consequences of a

cyberattack, one in ten said cybersecurity
was not even on their boardroom agenda,

and one in five said not a single employee
was trained to identify a cyberattack.57

As a result, and in the face of increasingly
sophisticated and targeted cyberthreats,
small businesses and charities will turn to
cloud platforms.58

A breach in a hybrid cloud environment (at
least two clouds – for example one private
and one public) costs an average of $3.8
million, half a million less than a breach in
a private cloud and just over a million less
than a breach in a public cloud.59

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               16 


MEGATREND 4

ENERGY
BOUNDARIESd

Energy is imperative to everyday life today and will continue to be so in
the future. Technological advances and the growing need for energy will
drive exploration and innovation and the pursuit of new and alternative
sources of energy. Novel materials and advanced machine intelligence
will enhance the generation of existing sources of energy and their
transmission and distribution to any place on earth or in space, pushing
the boundaries of energy to levels previously unseen.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Battery Technology
Biofuels

Fission
Fusion
Hydrogen

Hydropower
Lithium
Metallic   Foam

Solar Photovoltaics
Renewables

d Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               17 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

CLEAN AND RENEWABLE ENERGY FROM
VARIOUS SOURCES

By 2035,

renewables will generate


By 2026, the global capacity for renewable
electricity will have increased by more
than  80% since 2020, and by 2035,

renewables will generate 60% of the world’s
electricity.60 Two-thirds of the growth in
global renewable electricity capacity in
2026 will be from wind and solar.61

As clean fuel, the production market for
low-emission hydrogen – most of which is
‘grey’ (produced from natural gas) – was
valued at $130 billion between 2020 and
2021 and is estimated to grow just over 9%
per year until 2030.62

Small modular reactors (SMRs) as another
alternative source of energy. They can
generate about one-third of the capacity
generated by traditional nuclear power
reactors at a fraction of the size.63

More than 70 commercial SMR designs
are being developed around the world.64
Canada, the United Kingdom and the
United States have all signalled growing

support for SMRs and the global market for
SMRs is expected to be worth up to $300
billion per year by 2040.65

60%

of the world’s electricity


The demand for batteries

will increase by

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

BATTERY TECHNOLOGIES


between

2022 and 2030

In 2030, almost every second car sold will
be a battery electric vehicle (BEV). The
demand for batteries will increase by 35%
between 2022 and 203066and demand for
raw materials such as lithium, nickel and
graphite is expected to increase fifteen-
fold  by 2030.67 New materials, along with
manganese and cobalt, will be key to
advances   in battery designs seeking lighter
weight and better conductivity.68

China currently produces approximately
80% of the world’s battery cells and
components. However, as the European
Union   and the United States are — between
them — poised to cover 40% of the world’s
demand for electric vehicles, efforts

to grow localised battery supply chains
are expected.69

Decarbonisation in the aviation sector
will drive the use of alternative propulsion
technologies based on batteries and
hydrogen, with the operating range of

electric aircraft expected to reach 400 km
by 2035 rising to 600 km by 2050.70


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

SPACE ENERGY

Space-based solar power could be key to
meeting the growing demand for energy
and global temperature increases.71

In space, the sun’s beams are around 10
times stronger as they are on earth. A
single solar-power satellite could generate
around two gigawatts of power, equivalent
to six million solar panels on earth power-
ing more than one million homes.72

While the cost and carbon dioxide emis-
sions associated with launching solar pan-
els into space are of concern, the carbon
footprint of this approach, including the
launch, is estimated to be 50% of that of
land-based solar farms.73

A single solar-power satellite

would generate around

2

GIGAWATTS

equivalent to

6 MILLION

solar panels on earth

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               18 


MEGATREND 5

SAVING
ECOSYSTEMSe

Driven by resource scarcity, climate change and shifts in social values,
environmental impact management will increasingly move towards
the management of ecosystems74 as opposed to reducing the
environmental impact of a specific process, product or service.75
Approaches will also be more interdisciplinary and future focused,
taking into account both societal and environmental factors with the
goal of conserving biological and ecological services and resources
while providing for basic human needs.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Adaptive Management
Carbon Footprint
Ecological Economics

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
Food–Water–Energy Nexus

Forests and Mangroves
Green Finance

Net Positive
Net Zero

Sustainable Smart Cites

e  Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               19 


While

$1.2

TRILLION

is currently being spent
annually to meet existing
climate pledges, the
number needs to be

4X
HIGHER

to achieve net zero
emissions by 2050

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

GREEN FINANCE

The value of the trade in green bonds —
bonds financing environmental projects

— could reach nearly $2.4 trillion in 2023,
with the top three green bond issuers being
China, France and the United States.76
While $1.2 trillion is currently being spent
annually to meet existing climate pledges,
that number needs to be four times higher
to achieve net zero emissions by 2050.77

Untapped, green finance for the countries
in the Middle East – particularly those of
the Gulf Cooperation Council, which have
well-developed capital markets – could
unlock up to $2 trillion in cumulative GDP
contributions by 2030, could create more
than a million jobs and could encourage
foreign direct investment.78

Climate action and investment in the
Middle East are expected to grow: Oman79
and the United Arab Emirates have
committed to net zero carbon emissions
by 2050,80 and Saudi Arabia and Bahrain
by 2060.81


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

SMART SUSTAINABLE CITIES

Even though cities cover only

      2%

of the world’s land surface
they consume over

75%


More than 4.3 billion people,

or approximately 54% of the world’s
population, live in cities today. This is
expected to rise to 80% by 2050.82

Even though cities cover only 2% of the
world’s land surface they consume within
them over 75% of the planet’s material
resources.83 Increased urbanisation

will more than double global material
consumption, from 41 billion tonnes in 2010
to  around 89 billion tonnes by 2050.84 The
wealthiest countries consume 10 times as
much as the poorest.85

Low-carbon and resource-efficient cities
can reduce these impacts.86 While the
global smart cities market is expected to
reach a value of $7 trillion by 2030 (rising
at  a CAGR of 24% from 2022),87 some cities
will find it challenging to reach the goal

of becoming truly smart88 encompassing
an ecosystem that balances affordability,
inclusion, safety and sustainability.89

of the planet’s

material
resources

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND
GOVERNANCE (ESG) MARKETPLACES


The global market for environmental
consulting services is expected to reach

$43

BILLION

by 2026

As demand for ESG measurement,
management and reporting services
increases globally, associated services
will also grow.

The global ESG software market is
predicted to be worth $2 billion by 2030,
up from $558 million in 2021 with a
CAGR of 16%.90 The global market for
environmental consulting services was
estimated  at $32 billion in 2020 and is
expected to reach $43 billion by 2026,
growing at a CAGR of 5%.91

As of 2022, 140 countries92 and more
than 5,000 companies93 have made net
zero commitments. All are driving the
development of data analysis, reporting

and strategic advisory services to support
them on their path towards ESG maturity.94

As ESG gains traction in the Middle East,
a growing trend to disclose information
about committees that oversee ESG is
expected, with growing support to build
effective structures and meet global
reporting standards.95

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               20 


MEGATREND 6

BORDERLESS
WORLD - FLUID
ECONOMIESf

A borderless world emerges from increasingly borderless transactions
in finance, health, education, trade, services and even space.

These activities are leading to the blurring of jurisdictional boundaries,
changing liabilities and increased numbers of cross-border
communities. With the pace of change being driven by advances

in communications, computing and advanced machine intelligence,

a borderless world will change the way we work, live and communicate.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


3D Printing

Cellular (5G, 6G) and Broadband Networks
Cryptocurrencies

Digital Economy
Gig Economy

Legal Transformation
Migration and Immigration
Non-fungible Token (NFT)
Remote Work

Robotic Surgery

f  Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               21 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

LEGAL TRANSFORMATION

The number
of patents

7%

International
patents

3.5%


Between non-fungible tokens (NFTs),
cryptocurrencies, the gig economy,
cybersecurity and the multisectoral
digital economy more generally, dispute
resolution will increasingly become
complex and multijurisdictional.

As examples, the Singapore High Court
recently ruled that residency was sufficient
to establish jurisdiction in a dispute
involving an NFT.96 In the United Kingdom,
courts will look beyond the employee status
in a written contract and will instead look

at actual working arrangements.97 Various
court rulings and the standards proposed
in the draft European Directive on Platform
Work98 across the European Union have
been addressing employment rights of
those working through online platforms.99

Even patents are increasingly global. Since
2014, a total of 4.5 million international
patent applications have been filed

under the World Intellectual Property
Organization’s (WIPO) Patent Cooperation
Treaty. These are in 10 languages,
including 56% in English, nearly 17% in
Japanese, nearly 10% in German and 9%
in Chinese.100 Only 200 are in Arabic.101

Even with a 7% drop in the number of
patents published in 2022,102 272,313
international patents – nearly a 3.5%
increase compared to 2021 – were
published in 2022.103

Number of published patents in 2022
compared to 2021


Fully digitalising the economy in the
Middle East and North Africa region
(MENA) could lead to a rise in GDP
per capita of at least

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

EXPANDING THE DIGITAL ECONOMY


over 30 years and increase

1.5

MILLION
JOBS

in manufacturing

The consumer produced goods sector
produces more than 80% of greenhouse
gas emissions and is responsible for various
environmental impacts on biodiversity and
natural resource scarcity.104 As a result, it
will be vital in the future for this sector to
focus on sustainability and the complete

re-engineering of supply chains105 and find
innovative ways to seamlessly get everyday
products to consumers,106 which could be
enabled by expanding the digital economy.

The European Union has allocated about

$129 billiong to reforms and investments
in the digital economy, in areas including
digital transformation, adoption of key
digital technologies by businesses, AI, big
data and deployment of fifth-generation
(5G) cellular networks.107

Launched in April 2022, the United Arab
Emirates’ Digital Economy Strategy aims
to double the contribution of the digital
economy to the country’s non-oil

GDP — from just under 12% to 20% —
within 10 years (by 2031).108

Fully digitalising the economy in the Middle
East and North Africa (MENA) region could
lead to a rise in GDP per capita of some
46% over 30 years, particularly in the

lower-income countries of the region, and
increase employment in manufacturing by
5% (equivalent to 1.5 million jobs).109

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

SUPRANATIONAL SOCIAL POLICIES


The average life expectancy around the
globe is expected to reach 77 by 2050.110
From security, education and work

to health and well-being, people in a
borderless world may increasingly seek
borderless social services, including
retirement and unemployment aid. This
may make supranational social policies an
area of future opportunity.

Pensions are the most widespread form
of social protection around the world.
Globally, almost 80% of people above
retirement age receive some form of old-

age pension; expenditure on pensions and
other benefits for older people accounts for
7% of GDP on average.111

In an apparently irreversible move towards
remote work,112 three-quarters of
professionals and entrepreneurs believe that
remote work will be the new normal113 and
72%  of employers globally are considering

or have implemented a policy enabling their
employees to work from another location on
a temporary basis. Surveyed by EY, 74% of
employers globally are prepared to hire
employees with hard-to-fill or critical
skills and allow them to work from any-


g  Based on EUR–USD currency conversion rate on 11 November 2022.

where.114

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               22 


MEGATREND 7

DIGITAL
REALITIESh

Digital natives – those who have grown up with digital forms of
entertainment, education and even communications – will naturally
usher    in increasingly virtual worlds where many ‘real-world’ tasks
and behaviours can be replicated and even improved in 3D and 4D
environments. The emergence and spread of 5G and 6G networks will

enhance autonomous and Internet of Things (IoT) applications as they
offer more reliable, cost-effective and secure high-speed connectivity.
As quantum technologies become scalable and reliable, from quantum
computing, communications and sensors, immersive experiences will
start   to feel like reality.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Cellular (5G, 6G) and Broadband Networks
Augmented Reality (AR) and

Virtual Reality (VR)
Blockchain

Brain–Computer Interfaces (BCIs)
Cryptocurrencies

Digital Communities
Gaming

Internet of Things (IoT)
Metaverse

Wearables

h Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               23 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

IMMERSIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND WEARABLES


The global brain–computer interfaces
(BCIs), or neural implants, market was
valued at $1.5 billion in 2020 and is
projected to grow at a CAGR of 12.5%,
reaching $4.5 billion by 2030.115 BCIs can
help people control machines using their
thoughts, and they are especially useful
in helping people with paralysis to regain
control of their limbs.116

Some companies are working towards this
growing new industry that is considered to
be in the experimental stage.117 Including
Neuralink’s implantable brain–machine
interface (BMI), which measures 23
millimetres in diameter and is 8 millimetres
thick,118 Synchron recently implanted a
device into the brain of an individual with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).119, 120

More relatable today when it comes to
immersive technologies and wearables,
and in the second half of 2022, global
shipments of AR and VR devices continued
to decline (by just under 7%) year on year
compared to the previous two years.121
Nevertheless, the long-term outlook is
positive, with significant advances that
could unlock scalability by reducing prices
by more than 50%.122


The global brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), or neural implants, market is expected
to grow at a CAGR of 12.5%, reaching

$4.5

BILLION by 2030

The total value of the market for VR and
AR headsets, smart home devices and

wearables is expected to reach $543 billion
by the end of 2025 from just over $370
billion at the beginning of 2022.123


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

VIRTUAL PROTOTYPING

In consumer electronics,


Enabled by a combination of advanced
machine intelligence, advanced computing
and even quantum computing, virtual
prototyping runs numerical simulations to
allow  for enhanced simulation

analysis either through a digital twin or
independently.

Digital twins are indispensable in the auto
and consumer electronics industries today.
They can be integrated into research and
design, used to simulate the production
process, to plan and monitor supply chains
and to improve reliability and repairs; they

can even talk to each other – particular-
ly when implemented across the supply
chain.124 In consumer electronics, manu-

facturers have reduced the amount of scrap
by roughly 20% because of digital twins.125
Virtual prototyping will expand into other
areas as well: looking inside prototypes
and processes in engineering; social policy

design; and even environmental accounting
and impact assessments.126

The market for digital twins in Europe may
reach nearly $7 billion by 2025,i an annual
growth rate of up to 45%.127

manufacturers have reduced the
amount of scrap by roughly

20%

because of digital twins

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

‘DIGITAL REALITIES’ SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY


Concerns have been raised about
the impacts on our future well-being
of combining technologies to create

sophisticated and complicated immersive
and personal experiences.128 Concerns
include: reduced human interaction

and lack of in-person communication,
reduced physical activity, increased
abuse and harassment (types of

cybercrime), greater development of dual
and pseudo personalities with increased
adoption of them in the home, high
dependency on virtual spaces and data and
privacy issues.129

Drawing parallels with corporate social
responsibly, thinking in terms of ‘digital
realities social responsibility’ would

prompt opportunities to respond

to these concerns130 along with finding
ways to reduce the environmental
impact and energy consumption of
associated technologies.131

i  Based on EUR–USD currency conversion rate on 11 November 2022.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               24 


MEGATREND 8

LIFE WITH
AUTONOMOUS
ROBOTSj

A robot is a machine that can sense, think, act132 and communicate.133
Driven by profound progress in mechanical engineering design,
materials science, advanced machine intelligence and advanced
communication networks, robots will increasingly enter many – if not
all      – industries beyond the automotive, manufacturing and supply chain
logistics sectors. This will provide opportunities for efficiency and
innovation although there will also be ethical and societal challenges.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV)
Autonomous Robots

Biosensors

Collaborative Robots (Cobots)
Internet of Things (IoT)

Nanobots

Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Robot Skin

Service Robots
Social Robots

j  Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               25 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

COMPLEX AREAS OF DISCOVERY, BIG AND SMALL


In the sea, on land, in space and even within
us, it is anticipated that robots will one

day be found everywhere and in all sizes,
helping humans – from archaeological sites
to disaster zones to underground pipes.

To clean and maintain 10,000 coral
fragments, three people would need to
put   in 4,000 hours of work. Whereas, a
coral-farming robot such as ‘Charm’ uses
automation and AI with robotic arms,
camera and soft brushes to seamlessly
clean coral.134

At the Chinese University of Hong Kong,
scientists engineered a robot that behaves
like slime mixed with magnetic particles

that can be moved and controlled by
external magnets. Squeezing through
narrow spaces as small as 1.5 mm in
diameter and grasping solid objects by
wrapping around them, ‘slime’ could
repair circuits and move around objects.135

Nanobots are robots whose size
is measured in nanometres. While

nanobots’ primary use has so far been
in drug delivery, other uses include the
diagnosis of infection (by researchers at
the Chinese University of Hong Kong),

dental procedures (at the Indian Institute
of Science), diabetes management (at
Pennsylvania State University) and cancer
therapy (at the University of Hong Kong).136

At the Chinese University of Hong Kong,
scientists engineered a robot that behaves
like slime mixed with magnetic particles,
squeezing through narrow spaces

as small as

1.5 MM

in diameter

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

INCREASING HUMAN X MACHINE

1        COLLABORATION


MINUTE

of a surgical video is estimated
to generate

25X

the amount of data identified
in a computerised tomography
(CT) scan

As humans, machines and algorithms
increasingly work together,137 robots will
help nurses138 and free up workers to take
on more creative elements of their job.139
Wearable robots will enhance people’s
physical abilities, allowing them to lift up to
91 kg at a time irrespective of their innate
lifting ability.140 Another example, is that of
surgery.

Since the first telerobotic surgery in 2001,
remote surgery has gained prominence.
Robot-assisted surgery is designed be both
precise and minimally invasive.141

The Da Vinci system is a popular minimally
invasive robotic surgery approach. There
are 60,000 Da Vinci systems in operation
around the world and they have been used
to perform 10 million surgical procedures.
The system delivers 3D high-definition
views (magnified 10 times beyond what the
eye can see) and uses tiny instruments with
a greater range of motion than the hand.142

One minute of a surgical video is estimated
to generate 25 times the amount of data
identified in a computerised tomography
(CT) scan image enhancing both diagnosis
and treatment outcomes.143

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

INTELLIGENT, SOCIAL AND SENTIENT ROBOTS


While AI and robotics are two separate
fields, their integration into AI-powered
robots is expected to grow over the coming
decades.144 Robots can be augmented with
a  variety of sensors – including cameras,
vibration sensors, proximity sensors and
other sensors that pick-up information
from the surrounding environment – and
together with AI allow robots to analyse and
act upon situations in real time. AI is what
makes robots intelligent.145

In the literature, social robotics comprises
only 2.3% of the larger robotics knowledge
base. However, rapid progress in

social robotics research – aided by
interdisciplinary collaborations, including
the   social sciences – will help advance the
capabilities of social robots.146

With a third of Japan’s population already
aged over 65, the Japanese government is
providing subsidies to help care facilities
purchase social robots.147 The global social

robots market reached $2.6 billion in 2021
and is expected to reach $13 billion by
2027, expanding at a CAGR of 31%.148

The global emotion detection and
recognition market was valued at $19
billion in 2021 and is expected to grow
to $39 billion (at a CAGR of 16%) by
2026.149

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               26 


MEGATREND 9

FUTURE
HUMANITYk

Human potential is unlimited. With advanced machine intelligence,
brain–computer interfaces (BCIs), technological developments in
science     and medicine and an increasingly borderless world, people’s
understanding and expectations of self-realisation, including work,
education  and what it means to thrive, will shift. Personal development,
how individuals and communities innovate and communicate, and new
definitions of self-esteem, autonomy and stability will bring forth new
ideas about parenting, care, love, belonging, inclusion and community.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Brain–Computer Interfaces (BCIs)
Creative Economy

Future of Education and Higher Education
Future of Work

Ideation and Innovation

Mental Health
Personalisation
Self-Realisation
Digital Realities
Sharing Economy

k  Slight adjustment to title in the 2022 Global 50 Report.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               27 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

THE CREATIVE ECONOMY


The Dominican
Republic, Chile
and Canada

were the most innovative with more than

1 IN 10
ADULTS

starting a business using technologies

and procedures that were new to the target
market in 2021

Novelty, usefulness and surprise are all
criteria that have been used to define
creativity. As a complex phenomenon that
has attracted increased research interest,
creativity is as difficult – if not more difficult

– to study as attention and memory.150

As we gain better neuroscientific
understanding of the phenomenon,
creativity   will become more easily
nurtured.152 The creative economy could
represent 10% of global GDP by 2030.152

Creativity enables innovation, increases
productivity and fosters adaptability. 153
However, based on the average numbers
of patents filed in the United States,
creativity has been falling 4% per year
since the early 2000s,154 and in 37 of the
47 countries covered in the 2021 Global
Entrepreneurship Monitor less than 1 in
100 adults started a new business with
products or services that were new.155

Canada, Chile and the Dominican Republic,
were the most innovative with more than

1 in 10 adults starting a business using
technologies and procedures that were
new    to the target market. Norway, Poland
and Morocco were the least innovative,
each with less than 1 in 100 adults doing the
same.156


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

TECHNOLOGY FOR MENTAL HEALTH l

  Treatment for

people with

12%


Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, only
a small proportion of people in need had
access to effective, affordable and high-
quality mental healthcare. While 70% of
people with psychosis are reported to be
treated in high-income countries, only 12%
receive mental healthcare in low-income
countries.157

Increases in smartphone ownership and
internet connectivity, as well as wearable
devices, have made it possible to observe
and analyse human behavioural patterns
more comprehensively than ever before.
In response, there are more than 10,000

apps in the Apple and Google Play stores
that aim to address challenges in mental
health.158 In 2021, 11% of the $5.4 billion
funding raised by US digital health
companies went to start-ups focused on
behavioural health, including services both
for mental health and for substance abuse
treatment.159

If novel mental health therapies could
remove just 1% of the neurological and
mental health disorders that are currently
untreatable by 2045, the result would be
nearly  a $10 billion a year reduction in the
disease burden worldwide.160

psychosis

in low-income
counrtries

Treatment for
people with
psychosis

in high-income
counrtries

70%

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

NEW DEFINITIONS OF EDUCATION


In 2021, the global youth unemployment
rate was estimated to be just under

16%

more than three times the adult rate

Students will be expected to become
partners or co-creators of their own
learning, with anywhere and anytime
learning that is customised and evolved
in relation to grading and assessment.161
Knowledge, education and learning will
be reimagined in a world of increasing
complexity and uncertainty,162 and the
need   to manage workforce participation,

education and knowledge will be critical.163

Further driving the future of education

is future employment. In 2021, the global
youth unemployment rate was estimated
to be just under 16%, more than three
times the adult rate.164 Just prior to the
Covid-19 pandemic, more than one in
five young people aged 15-24 were not in
education, employment or training, and
in the 86 countries with available data for

2019, almost half of all young people aged
15–24 not in education or training were not
employed.165 Young people in the MENA
region continue to find that the rising

cost of living and unemployment present
significant challenges.166

l  Barring laws and regulations safeguarding patient privacy and data protection.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               28 


MEGATREND 10

ADVANCED
HEALTH AND
NUTRITION

Progress in advanced machine intelligence, nano- and biotechnology,
additive manufacturing and the Internet of Things (IoT) will change both
what we mean by health and nutrition and how they are experienced.

Stemming from the unprecedented developments that will be required
to respond to climate change, resource scarcity and the desire for
longevity, this megatrend will improve health in both the younger and
the older years. It will reduce, if not eradicate some, communicable and
non-communicable diseases and enhance the sustainable use of and
access to water and food.

KEYWORDS TO USE WHEN LOOKING FOR TRENDS AND SIGNALS


Additive Manufacturing
Agritech

Cell-Based Manufacturing
Entomophagy

Genomics
Longevity

Nanotechnology
Nutrition

Personalised Medicine
Tissue Engineering
Nanomedicine

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               29 


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING FOR FOOD


Additive manufacturing (3D printing) for
food has many advantages, including
unlimited design freedom, texture variety,
waste reduction and time reduction – and
potentially personalised nutrition in the
future. The main challenges to address
include the ability to print a variety of
ingredients and nutrients, set printing
models  and associated parameters, and
design printers that are adaptable to
printable food options.167

The global 3D food-printing market is
being driven by increased consumer
demand for mass customisation and,
more specifically, for customised food and
nutrition. Another driver is technological
advances in the ability of 3D – and one day

4D – printers to quickly prepare food that is
suitably textured, nutritious and tasty. The
global 3D food-printing market is predicted
to surpass $1.6 billion by 2030, growing
from $350 million in 2020 at a CAGR of
17%.168

The global 3D food-printing market

is predicted to surpass

$1.6

BILLION

by 2030


Entomophagy accounts for

of the diet of the
world's population

AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

DIVERSIFIED SOURCES OF FOOD


The market is expected to grow

30%

between 2022 and 2026

Between plant, cellular, fermentation and
other (e.g. edible insects) sources, the
market share of alternative proteins could
reach 12% ($290 billion) of the total protein
market by 2035, compared to

2% in 2020.169

More than one-fifth of global greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions come from
agriculture. Cellular agriculture has the
potential  to reduce GHG emissions up to
96% compared to traditional agriculture.170
In 20 years, 35% of global meat
consumption will come from cultivated
meats,  with this market expanding at a
CAGR of 41% between 2025 and 2040.171

Entomophagy – the practice of eating
insect-based proteins – already accounts
for   a third of the diet of the world’s
population and can be an alternative to the
intake of proteins from mammals and fish.
The market was worth $1.2 billion in 2021
and is expected to grow at a CAGR of 30%
between 2022 and 2026172 where cultural
practices permit.

In the Middle East and Africa combined,
the plant-based meat and dairy products
market was valued at $240 million in 2020
and is projected to achieve a CAGR of 6%
between 2021 and 2026. Domestic brands
that have launched vegan meat products
include the United Arab Emirates-based
Global Food Industries’ Healthy Farm and
Al Islami.173


AREA OF FUTURE OPPORTUNITY

PERSONALISED MEDICINE AND GENOMICS

Personalised medicine


Personalised medicine involves fitting
treatment to individual characteristics.
It  could ultimately lead to a shift in the
clinical treatment paradigm from a trial-

and-error approach to one that enables the
right drug to be prescribed for the

right patient at the right time.174

Current medicine mainly uses a universal
approach to diagnostics and prescriptions.
Meanwhile, 90% of conventional medicines
work for only 30–50% of patients.175

The projections are that personalised
medicine could grow by 11% per year from
2020  to 2026 and be worth $142 billion
globally,176 with increasing demand for novel
therapeutic drugs.

could be worth

$142

BILLION

globally by 2026


NAVIGATING
THE GLOBAL 50
REPORT

The primary aim of the Global 50 report is to support the formulation
of new ideas and present various opportunities that may be worth
pursuing. Coming up with new ideas is demanding, requiring multiple

reiterations, particularly when thinking far into the future. The Global 50
offers specific pathways to explore the uncertainties, assumptions and
megatrends and turn them into future opportunities worth pursuing for
growth, prosperity and well-being.

We recommend that you look at all untapped potential. Ask yourself
how uncertainties, assumptions and megatrends apply to your area
of work. Do not ignore an opportunity just because it does not specify
your sector. Be aware of how they might impact the direction of your
organisation. Think about your stakeholders: how will they interpret
the    new ideas? How can you work with them to prepare or shape the
future in this era of quantum shifts? More importantly, use the power

of imagination and perspective to generate ideas that you may not have
thought of previously.

Tips on using the Global 50 report when it comes to the
process of formulating new ideas

REFLECT on the uncertainties, megatrends and
assumptions and think of the expected and unexpected, the
favourable and unfavourable in your sector and area of work;

STUDY whether more advantages lie in leveraging benefits
and/or managing risks;

IMAGINE how opportunities in one sector can be applied
in yours;

THINK of communities, nations and regions around the
world who share similar vulnerabilities and opportunities;

CONSIDER the impact on stakeholders and your role in
managing the impacts;

KEEP AN OPEN MIND and change your perspective; and

more importantly, USE YOUR IMAGINATION to keep
thinking of ideas.


NAVIGATING
OPPORTUNITIES

As mentioned earlier in the report, the opportunities shared in this
report are not exhaustive; they present some of the different
pathways and approaches to growth, prosperity and well-being.
They offer possibilities for major advances in our quality of life while
raising profound questions for society to resolve. Some opportunities
will be more pertinent than others. Some contexts may have the
conditions in place to share in the benefits, others may not. Equally,
the risks relating to some opportunities might not be limited to those
countries or businesses exploiting the opportunities directly: risks
often travel faster than benefits.

Each of the opportunities presented includes a question for the
future with a tagline that answers it driving further thinking.

Each of the opportunities also includes trends and challenges observed
today that make these opportunities relevant in the future along with a
high-level assessment of the associated benefits, risks, most significant
megatrend driving the opportunity and sectors that can impact or be
shaped  by the opportunity.

Category

Short Title

Question for
the Future

Short Title

Opportunity


Most Significant

Megatrend

Areas to look for
relevant trends and

signals

Sectors that
can impact or
be shaped

by the
opportunity

The trends, signals, benefits and risks mentioned within each opportunity are non-exhaustive.


OPPORTUNITIES MAP 

OPPORTUNITIES MAP


MOST SIGNIFICANT

MEGATREND

OPPORTUNITY

01

05

02

09

03

23

04

43

05

17                                         06

41                                         07

42                                         08

36                                         09

38                                         10

47

48                                         11

12

18

13

19

14

22

15

24

16

25

17

26

18

27

19

28

20

29

21

46

16                                         22

30                                         23

21                                         24

35                                         25

37                                         26

40                                         27

44                                         28

29

12

11                                         30

13                                         31

14                                         32

15                                         33

20                                         34

31                                         35

32                                         36

33                                         37

34                                         38

39                                         39

45

49                                         40

50                                         41

42

01

43

02

44

03

45

04

46

06

47

07

48

08

49

10

50


HEALTH
REIMAGINED

THE 50 OPPORTUNITIES 

HEALTH REIMAGINED 

Redefine mental and physical health, support longer lives,
drawing on both science, technology and nature towards
better health and new ways to personalise access for
individuals and communities everywhere.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               34 


OPPORTUNITY #1

What if we improved our natural internal armour?

FIERCE
FASCIA

Gene therapies and advanced nutritional approaches boost
the body’s natural internal armour, scientifically known as
the fascia, preserving biomechanical health over a lifetime.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Genomics

Longevity & Well-being

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Financial Services & Investment
Health  & Healthcare

Insurance & Reinsurance
Materials & Biotechnology

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               35 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Longevity and more sedentary lifestyles are contributing to a rise
in reported joint and back pain as well as migraines, 177 all of which
are conditions that negatively impact quality of life.

Research has found that 42% of adults in Sweden with back pain take
sick leave or disability payments, with productivity loss per person
amounting to more than $13,000 during a 12-month follow-up period.178
Globally, over 570 million people, i.e. 7.5% of the world’s population,
were affected by back pain in 2021.179 Partially related to sedentary
lifestyles, the annual economic burden of migraines in the United States
is some $78 billion and the associated annual health service costs are
between $8,500 and $9,500

per individual.180

Global healthcare spending – both public and private – is estimated to
rise by nearly 5% in the period between 2020 to 2040, reaching a value
of nearly $12 trillion by 2040,181 and as populations become more urban
and many jobs become even more sedentary, uncovering causes and
how to prevent or treat ‘aches and pains’ is becoming more urgent.

OVER

570 MILLION
PEOPLE

i.e. 7.5% of the world’s population,

are affected by back pain across the globe

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               36 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The fascia acts as the body’s internal armour, protecting connective
tissues, muscles, tendons and ligaments. Research is revealing the role
it plays in preventing muscular and joint pain, even migraines,182 and

in maintaining biomechanical strength as we age.183 Advanced medical
technologies and understanding of the fascia could open new avenues
for keeping it healthy, supple and strong throughout life, to preserve
overall agility and strength and reduce joint pain.

Gene therapies and novel nutritional approaches can improve the
resilience and efficacy of the fascia and radically reduce muscle,
ligament and tendon pain and injuries. By boosting fascia health in
younger people, these techniques can improve people’s overall levels
of fitness by facilitating exercise and recovery. In older people, fascia
treatments decrease the stiffness, aches and pains associated with
ageing, keeping older populations more active and in better health
for longer.184 The overall result is a lower cost burden on healthcare
systems and greater lifelong productivity, health and well-being.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved productivity, quality of
life and well-being. Reduced costs
to health systems.

Over-reliance on fascia treatment,
causing delayed treatment of
other symptoms and potentially
exacerbating associated diseases.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               37 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

FIERCE FASCIA 

Global healthcare spending
is estimated to rise by nearly

5%

in the period 2020 to 2040
reaching a value of

$12

TRILLION

by 2040

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               38 


OPPORTUNITY #2

What if we all held on to our stem cells?

THE ISSUE
OF TISSUE

Long-term self-storage of an individual’s stem cells
become a standard of care, giving everyone the possibility
of regenerating their own critical tissues throughout life.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Nanomedicine
Nanotechnology
Personalised     Medicine

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Financial Services & Investment
Health  & Healthcare

Insurance & Reinsurance
Materials & Biotechnology

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               39 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

While there are many globally established cord blood banks that enable
the storage of stem cells isolated from new-born tissues, the procedure
continues to be optional for many parents. Based on the latest available
data, parents banked cord blood in 30% of births in Singapore between
2018 and 2019; in contrast, in the United Arab Emirates and the United
States, the level was around 3%.185 Levels in other countries were 2.3%
in Canada, 1.5% in Lebanon and 0.3% in the United Kingdom.186

As of 27 October 2022, the World Marrow Donor Association had
registered just over 41 million blood stem cell donors, almost five times
the number of donors registered two decades ago, and 811,000 cord
blood units, almost seven times the number of units registered two
decades ago.187 An alternative source of stem cells is bone marrow.

Most marrow exchanges took place within Europe; for cord it was within
Asia, including the Middle East.188

Genetically, siblings have about a 25% chance of being perfect matches
for each other, while the chances of finding a suitable match among
unrelated bone marrow or cord blood donors from a public bank range
from 29% to 79%.189 As cord blood inventory increases by over 600,000
submissions annually,190 Stem cells can be used to treat more than 70
types   of disease, including immune system diseases, genetic disorders,
neurologic disorders and some forms of cancer.191

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               40 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The ability to regenerate genetically identical tissue from an individual’s
own stem cells opens the door to new and improved treatments for
people with a range of chronic diseases and autoimmune conditions

or accidental brain and other injuries. Future developments in stem
cell nanotechnology will enable even better approaches and therapies
targeting disease.192 In addition, stem cells’ pluripotency193 means they
can be grown into any type of tissue, making them, for example, an

invaluable source of new organs without the risk of rejection, or a means
of repairing tissue damage to retinas or the skin.

Cord blood extraction is a non-invasive procedure compared to
other ways of gathering stem cells, such as bone marrow extraction.

Therefore,and with consent, a requirement to store cord blood at birth –
along with developments in stem cell isolation, harvesting and storage

– may give individuals access to their own stem cells, stored in their
own homes or elsewhere, and also give researchers access to stem cells
for new applications in immunotherapies and in advancing precision
medicine. Damaged heart muscles could be replaced, eliminating the

need for pacemakers. Cancerous tissues could be removed and replaced
with healthy tissue, and entire body parts could even be rebuilt using the
same cell stock.194

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved health outcomes and
quality of life, reducing care and
health costs. Reduced misuse

of and malicious damage to stem
cell stocks.

Inability to sustainably maintain
cord blood banks and/or research
with pressure for profitability and
over-regulation. Low adoption
due to perceived black market
exchanges.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               41 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

THE ISSUE OF TISSUE 

As of 27 October 2022, the World Marrow Donor Association had
registered just over

811,000

CORD
BLOOD
UNITS

almost seven times the number of units registered
two decades ago.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               42 


OPPORTUNITY #3

What if we could reprogramme proteins?

BIOHACKING
2.0

A complete map of the protein structures and functions
enables exponential advances in genetics and
bioengineering, rethinking disease, agri-food chains and the
ability    to create new organic-based materials.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
Genomics
Proteomics

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology
Health & Healthcare

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               43 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The Human Genome Project was seeded with $4 billion in public
funds, which has been converted into $700 billion worth of new
economic activity as a result of sequencing the human DNA.195
The Human Proteome Organization, an international consortium

of research, government and business organisations, has uncovered
just over 93% of the human proteome.196

While the number of proteins found in the human body is a matter

of debate, most scientists agree on 20,000 but there could be more.197
Types of protein include antibodies, enzymes, hormonal proteins,
storage proteins and transport proteins with their many functions198
and only a third of all estimated human proteins have been
experimentally uncovered.199

A subsidiary of Google, DeepMind Technologies’ predictive Artificial
Intelligence (AI) model AlphaFold has now predicted the structure of
almost   the entire known human proteome. It has also predicted large
portions of the proteomes of other organisms, including mice, maize
and   the malaria parasite.200, 201 As a result, over 350,000 possible protein
structures are currently catalogued, and this is expected to grow to 130
million structures, giving the potential to revolutionise the life sciences.202
The proteomics-based market was valued at $17.5 billion as of 2019 and
is projected to increase to $30.6 billion by 2025.203

Over

350,000

possible protein structures are currently
catalogued, and this is expected to grow to

130

structures

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               44 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Now that the human genome has been decoded, advanced machine
intelligence will continue to enable mapping of the human proteome205
resulting  in a complete catalogue of the various functions and structures
of proteins.206 This, combined with advanced protein engineering

and editing techniques, enables the re-engineering or application
of proteins’ natural characteristics to defend against viruses,
neutralise bacterial infections and even attack cancer cells through
a simple procedure.207

While AI-generated protein structures will need to be validated
experimentally, 208 uncovering the underlying mechanisms of which
blood     is transported, disease is triggered and how other organisms
evolve and respond to their environments would be significant. This
enables ways to fight disease, rethink agri-food chains and create novel
organic-based materials and processes.209

BENEFITS          RISKS


Exponential improvements in
a range of health treatment
possibilities and outcomes.

Unintended consequences of
engineering proteins, including
increasing pathogenicity of viruses
and designer toxins.204

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               45 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

BIOHACKING 2.0

The Human
Genome Project
was seeded with

$4

BILLION

in public funds,
which has been
converted into

$700

BILLION

worth of new economic activity

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               46 


OPPORTUNITY #4

What if the world’s most disadvantaged had access
to real-time diagnostics?

NO MORE
WAITING
ROOM

The costs of cutting-edge HealthTech drop, making optimal
prevention, diagnosis and treatment accessible to more
people around the world.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Genomics
HealthTech
Mobilising Innovation
Proteomics

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Financial Services & Investment
Health  & Healthcare

Insurance & Reinsurance

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               47


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Health is a critical part of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), with all 17 SDGs being directly or indirectly related

to health or contributing to its development in some form.210 Shifts
resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic have reversed the progress
made since the adoption of the SDGs in 2015 and the poorest countries
have seen their progress reversed by almost 10 years.211 In about

90% of countries, one-third of health services were disrupted.212
As countries try to address backlogs,213 there is already a need to
accelerate innovation and progress to ensure better healthcare
progress worldwide.

The number of MRI scans, globally, increased by 31% between 2007
and 2018,214 and Artificial Intelligence (AI) continues to play a key role
in reducing the cost of medical imaging. Artificial intelligence is able to
process data and identify anomalies in medical images more quickly
than healthcare professionals alone, with the potential to improve
patient outcomes by 30–40% and reduce treatment costs by 50%.215
Since the first telerobotic surgery in 2001, remote surgery has also
gained prominence, aided by the integration of new technology such
as  5G, AI, haptic feedback devices, 3D printing and nanotechnology.

In 2019, the 5G network enabled telerobotic spinal surgeries to
be performed on 12 patients in different hospitals in six cities
simultaneously.216

As they enable remote treatment of disease, the number of antibody
therapies approved since 2010 has exceeded 100 in the United States
and   a record number are undergoing regulatory review.217 Nearly half
(45%) are treatments for cancer, 27% for immune-mediated disorders,
8% for infectious diseases, 7% for cardiovascular or haemostasis
disorders, 5% for neurological disorder and 8% for other disorders.218

In about

of countries, one-third of health
services were disrupted due to the
COVID-19 pandemic

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               48 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Falling costs and high levels of automation, telehealth and telesurgery
capacity will make cutting-edge care accessible and highly affordable
around the world. AI, precision medicine and automation will
revolutionise medical diagnosis, with possibilities ranging from more
powerful  and expensive medical imaging devices and diagnostic testing
to rapid remote diagnostics, protein therapeutics and gene editing for
personalised care.219

Diagnostics will be done through personal devices, removing the need
for appointments and waiting times. Personalised treatment plans will
be generated that draw on massive health databases, improving the
efficacy of care and resulting in better outcomes. Fewer medical staff
will  be needed to treat more people, reducing the cost of health

to public finances.

The global precision medicine market is anticipated to grow at a
compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12% from $66 billion in 2021
to  $147 billion by 2028.220

BENEFITS          RISKS


Longer, healthier lifespans along
with decreased pain and suffering
and greater productivity and

self-optimisation around the
globe. Improved global growth,
prosperity and well-being through
support for the SDGs.

Over-reliance on technology,
leaving health systems
vulnerable  to cyberattacks and
intentional or unintentional
harm. Deliberate or accidental
misdiagnosis. Unintended long-
term consequences in protein

therapeutics and genetic therapy,
including increasing pathogenicity
of diseases and viruses.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               49 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

NO MORE WAITING ROOM 

As they enable remote treament of disease, the
number of antibody therapies approved
since 2010 has exceeded

in the United States

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               50 


OPPORTUNITY #5

What if cities went silent?

SOUND OF
SILENCE

Advances in noise-absorbing materials and noise-
cancelling technologies make the sound of silence —

in cities — a reality, reducing stress and improving sleep.


MEGATREND

Materials Revolution

TRENDS 

New Materials
Urban Design

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation

Communication Technologies and Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare
Infrastructure & Construction
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Real Estate

Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Noise that comes from aircraft, aeroplanes or construction work can
become unbearable for people who live in cities. The urban population
has been growing steadily with more people choosing to reside in cities
than rural areas. More than 50% of the world’s population resides in
cities today, and this figure is expected to increase to 68% by 2050.221

A United Nations report recommends a permissible noise level for
commercial areas with traffic of 70 decibels (dB). Prolonged noise

at this level can cause hearing loss. The noisiest cities, all in Asia, are:222

1  Dhaka (Bangladesh) – 119 dB

2  Moradabad (India) – 114 dB

3  Islamabad (Pakistan) – 105 dB

4  Rajshahi (Bangladesh) – 103 dB

5  Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam) – 103 dB

In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region the noisiest city
is Damascus, Syria, at 94 dB.223

The World Health Organization recommends maintaining environmental
noise below 70 dB over 24-hour periods to prevent noise-induced
hearing loss.224 For an 8-hour workday, 85–90 dB is judged to be

an acceptable level of noise.225

Sleep can be affected by 30 dB, but busy roads emit noise at 70 dB
and subways at 90 dB, while aeroplane take-offs register at 100 dB.226
The major transformation in mobility from the increased use of electric
vehicles is expected to have a positive impact on noise levels, since
electric vehicles are quieter than diesel and petrol ones; however, the
overall impact is expected to be low, particularly at high speeds, where
other factors come into play, such as tyre and wind noise.227


THE OPPORTUNITY

Noise pollution in urban areas and workplaces is a source of stress
and fatigue.

Reducing noise pollution plays a role in improving quality of life,228
and, while further research is needed to explore the effect of noise on

cardiovascular health, research has shown that there is some evidence
linking noise to increased risk of heart disease.229

New materials offer the possibility of creating more peaceful
neighbourhoods. New road surfaces can absorb the sound that comes
from    traffic, or roadside noise-cancelling materials can block sounds
from reaching nearby buildings. Noise-cancelling equipment can
transform construction sites making urban building sites less disruptive,
enabling construction to continue 24/7 even in residential areas. Inside
homes and offices, people can adjust background noise levels up or
down using smart materials with acoustic controls.

Scalable solutions for noise cancellation can be combined with
innovative regulations to drive installations that significantly reduce
noise levels to create quieter neighbourhoods.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Less noise-related anxiety.
Improved mental health and
sleep quality.

Increased investment in noise
reduction does not keep pace with
ever-increasing noise pollution.


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

SOUND OF SILENCE 

RECOMMENDED
NOISE LEVEL

70 dB

THE NOISIEST CITIES IN ASIA

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               54 


OPPORTUNITY #6

What if we could protect our future selves from
past trauma?

YOUR
MEMORIES,
EDITED

Advances in neuroscience enable the development of
approaches to treat and erase past trauma enabling better
life outcomes for trauma sufferers and their families.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Mental Health
Neuroscience

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               55 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Traumatic events or experiences in childhood can have a long-lasting
impact on individuals, resulting in learning, depression and even
personality disorders.230 Trauma shows up when people have difficulties
regulating their emotions, difficulty concentrating and diminished
creativity, leading to poor mental and physical well-being and poor
educational and career outcomes.231 This can also slow a country’s
economic  and social development.232

Child maltreatment is often hidden and unreported. In the United States,
at least one in seven children experienced abuse or neglect in 2021; in
the previous year, 2020, 1,750 children died of abuse and neglect.233
Globally, three in four children aged between two and four regularly
suffer physical punishment and/or psychological violence at the hands
of parents and caregivers. And one in five women and one in thirteen
men report having been sexually abused by the age of 17.234

While research is not conclusive as to whether the impact of trauma
can be passed down over the generations,235 approximately 3.6% of
adults (9 million people) are eligible for PTSD treatment in the United
States.236 Virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) is being considered
as   a behavioural treatment for PTSD patients: the therapy aims to
reduce a person’s fear and anxiety to improve their quality of life by
eliminating avoidance behaviour.237

Approximately

3.6%

OF
ADULTS

are eligible for PTSD treatment

in the United States

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               56 


THE OPPORTUNITY

We may not always be aware of repressed childhood trauma as our
brain may have purposely covered it up238 or it may have happened too
early in our lives for us to recall. However, advances in both genetics
and functional brain imagery are bringing greater understanding

of how trauma affects brain chemistry, hormones and brain-activity
responses to stress, such as changes in cortisol levels.239 These offer
a  range of therapeutic approaches, such as neurostimulation to
trigger memories or to desensitise the brain’s reaction to them. More
advanced approaches can selectively remove negative recollections
and erase trauma-inducing memories, leading to more effective
treatments started early on during childhood and adolescence.240

At the therapeutic level, better, faster interventions are becoming
standard for survivors of trauma-inducing situations, making it
possible  to prevent the emergence of conditions such as post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The results are improved quality of
life, irrespective of whether the person was aware of the past trauma,
and better life outcomes for trauma sufferers and their families.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved quality of life, career and
educational outcomes. Reduced
impact of trauma on the wider
family and community. Elimination
of the impacts of trauma that may
or may not be known. Ability to
budget funds to other pressing
public health problems.

Unintended consequences of
intervening in the brain functions
involved with memory and recall.
Potentially poor long-term
effectiveness of treatment.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               57 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

YOUR MEMORIES, EDITED 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               58 


OPPORTUNITY #7

What if technology-free zones were part of
urban planning?

TECH-FREE
URBAN
PLANNING

Establishing zones disconnected from devices and
digital realities gives residents the freedom to unplug
and recharge.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

New Materials
Urban Design

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction

Media & Entertainment
Real Estate

Travel & Tourism
Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               59 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Worldwide, the number of active devices connected to the Internet
of Things (IoT) is projected to triple, from 9.8 billion in 2020 to over
29 billion in 2030.241 These devices commonly possess ‘always-on’
sensors, such as accelerometers, magnetometers, gyroscopes,
altimeters or barometers, global positioning systems (GPS)242 and
many more, which can reduce comfort and mental well-being.243

People use technology for a variety of reasons, so not all screen time
should be considered the same.244 However, in 2021 the average person
had 6 hours and 58 minutes of internet-connected screen time per day,
an increase from 50 minutes per day in 2013.245

The average American has 7 hours per day of screen time and the figure
in the United Arab Emirates is around 8.5 hours, while South Africans
average almost 11 hours.246 This trend is not limited to adults and
includes young children. Almost half (49%) of children up to two years
old interact with smartphones.247

Google Trends shows that global searches for ‘digital detox’ have nearly
doubled since 2015.248 Searching for ‘digital detox’ on Google gives
more than 39.2 million results, 18.7 million of which were added since
the beginning of 2019.249, 250

Businesses are using this opportunity to help their customers stay
offline. Some examples include the Hold app, which incentivises
people  to stay off their phone by giving them the opportunity to earn
rewards, and the Digital Detox Retreats website, which lists hotels and
destinations that have no Wi-Fi, phones or TVs.251

In 2021 the average person had

6 HOURS
AND

58 MINUTES

of internet-connected screen time per day

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               60 


THE OPPORTUNITY

In a world where advanced connectivity is all around us, the deliberate
creation of technology-free zones would be a paradigm shift for society
and its citizens. Urban planners could intentionally help people who
want to reduce the effects technology has on their routines, thought
processes and emotions.

Designed to block communication signals and devoid of the integrated
sensors and devices omnipresent in cities and homes, these spaces
could be used to switch off – literally – and relax or to experiment

with analogue ways of working. Pen and paper, non-AI-moderated
discussion and brainstorming can exploit what research indicates
about  how we learn: that the brain absorbs and responds to information
differently when the body is involved. For example, the act of writing
something down helps us to remember it.252

Ubiquitous connectivity has its downsides – such as difficulty
disconnecting from work completely and the inability to escape external
stimuli such as screens – particularly as digital realities are expected to
grow over time.253 In addition to being a source of distraction, affecting
concentration and recall, various forms of technology are actively
intervening   in our lives, from alarms and reminders concerning activity,
sleep and calories to more intrusive examples such as remote work
supervision and growing numbers of automated services and sensors.

The creation of technology-free spaces could encourage people to feel
that it is acceptable to disconnect and experience the world without
augmentation or prompting. These new urban zones could encourage
people   to interact with others without the mediating impact of a device.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Greater well-being at the
individual and personal level.
Potentially, an economic uplift as
these zones may boost creative
thinking, focus and relaxation.

People being unaccounted for as
data from wearables become more
prominent in policy-making and
efforts towards safety.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               61 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

TECH-FREE URBAN PLANNING 

Global searches for

‘DIGITAL
DETOX’

have

DOUBLED

since 2015

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               62 


OPPORTUNITY #8

What if we spent more time awake?

33 YEARS
IN BED

Advances in circadian biology, neuroscience, the science

of sleep and purpose-designed spaces enable higher quality
rest and recuperation, leading to improved physical and
mental health and a significant boost in productivity.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Digital Therapeutics
Longevity & Well-being
Neuroscience

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Education

Health & Healthcare
Media & Entertainment
Travel & Tourism
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               63 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Insomnia and disturbed sleep are increasing. We have noise and
light pollution, shift work, 24/7 access to media, constant stress and

conditions such as sleep apnoea.254 Health problems, including weight
gain, heart conditions and even certain cancers, have been linked to
anxiety and poor concentration.255 The result is a lower quality of life
and well-being which reduces productivity at both individual and
collective levels.

Up to 20% of employers worldwide use shift-working patterns to ensure
24/7 production or services.256 People who used technology in bed
before going to sleep scored lower on measures of sleep quality than
those who did not.257 Nearly half of the American adults polled in a sleep
health study said they used technology in bed at least once a week and,
staggeringly, 30% said they did so every day.258 Nearly 21% of adults
even   said that they would check their device before going back to sleep
if they woke up during the night.259

The sleeping aids market worldwide was valued at $64 billion in 2021260
and is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR)

of 7% per year by 2030.261 The global wearable sleep tracker market
is forecast to be worth $3 billion by 2028.262

In a typical lifespan, we spend about

26 YEARS

sleeping. We also spend 7 years just trying to sleep.
That adds up to

33 YEARS

spent in bed

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               64 


THE OPPORTUNITY

On average, a person spends one-third of their life asleep. That means,
in a typical lifespan, about 26 years are spent sleeping. We also spend
seven years just trying to sleep. That adds up to 33 years spent in bed.263
Advances in circadian biology have implications for the quality and
quantity   of sleep people are getting. As the field grows in importance,
neuroscience, endocrinology and the use of external interventions could
improve the way we get our sleep.264

Sleep patterns could be optimised by special diets and nano-doses

of sleep-enhancing hormones.265 Body monitoring devices can identify
sleep pattern irregularities and suggest treatments to improve sleep.266
Trans-cranial (i.e. through the skull) technology has the power to bring
people into the most restful sleep state in an instant, making it possible
to radically reduce the amount of time need for rest and recuperation.267

Focusing on creating the best conditions conducive to a good night’s
sleep— air quality, furniture,268 windows, doors, paints and space more
generally269 — combined with technology, can result in optimal sleeping
experiences.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved physical and mental
health. A boost in productivity and
more time to practise hobbies.

Unforeseeable risks of interfering
with sleep duration over extended
periods of time, e.g. triggering
mental health issues or physical
conditions.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               65 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

33 YEARS IN BED 

Nearly

21%

of adults globally said that they
check their device before going
back to sleep if they woke up
during the night

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               66 


OPPORTUNITY #9

How can we protect ourselves from the possibility
of electromagnetic harm or disruption?

ELECTRO-
MAGNETIC
SHIELD

Between nanoengineering and the rapid and scalable
development of new materials, we can create or evolve
existing powerful shields to block electromagnetic
radiation and interference.


MEGATREND

Materials Revolution

TRENDS 

Advanced Connectivity
Electromagnetic Radiation
New Materials

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation

Communication Technologies and Systems
Cyber & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Government Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               67 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

There are natural and artificial sources of electromagnetic field radiation
(EMF).270 Natural sources include lightning and solar radiation, while
artificial sources include microwaves, electric motors, mobile phones,
radio and power lines.271 Known as electromagnetic interference (EMI),
not only can EMF potentially cause problems for human beings but

it can also disrupt the proper functioning of electronic272 and medical
devices273 and vice versa.274,275

To date there is no clear evidence proving that EMF can have lasting
harmful effects on human beings.276 But it does interfere with other
technology. The number of artificial sources of EMI continues to
increase,   as does the number of essential electronic devices vulnerable
to EMI. These include new driverless cars, aeroplanes, mobility

and navigation systems and medical equipment such as magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) machines and implants.

The World Health Organization monitors legislation around the world
relating to exposure to electromagnetic fields on its Global Health
Observatory portal, last updated in 2018.277 Most countries in Europe
and    Iran have legislation that mandates compliance, whereas the United
States and South Africa make compliance voluntary. The majority of
countries do not publish any data on this subject.278

However, the International Electrotechnical Commission provides
guidance. It describes over 50 standards on electromagnetic
compatibility that specify ways to measure emissions and set limits
including testing techniques, levels and mitigation methods.279

The size of the EMI shielding market is estimated to be just over

$8.5 billion. It is forecast to grow at a compound annual growth rate
(CAGR) of 5.4% between 2022 and 2027.280

The size of the EMI shielding market is estimated to be just over

$8.5

BILLION

It is forecast to grow at a compound annual growth rate
of 5.4% between 2022 and 2027

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               68 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Exposure to low-frequency electromagnetic fields may cause
headaches, fatigue and feelings of anxiety. In extreme circumstances,
exposure is considered a factor in the development of cancers and
problems in pregnancy.281 A combination of nanoengineering and the
rapid and scalable development of new materials offers the hope that
we can find ways to shield ourselves from any possible harmful impacts
from associated EMF in the present and the future.282

Nanoparticles and other new materials can replace or work in tandem
with conventional methods of blocking EMI, such as Faraday cages,283
EMI gaskets and carbon-fibre concentrated composites.284 These
technologies provide protection by absorbing electromagnetic energy
and spreading it across conductive materials. Such EMI-cancelling
materials can be used in miniaturised devices, including cardiac,
cochlear  and neural implants.285 As the world becomes more dependent
on powerful embedded systems, advanced EMI shielding through
material science can prevent costly and potentially hazardous errors
and outages.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Protection of essential services.
Reduction of the potential risk
of harm to human health and the
cost of outages.

False confidence in electro-
magnetic devices leading to
exposure beyond sensible limits.
A  lack of global standards aiming
to limit exposure to potentially
harmful devices at source.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               69 


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

ELECTROMAGNETIC SHIELD 


SOURCES OF
ELECTROMAGNETIC
FIELD RADIATION

Natural Sources

LIGHTNING
SOLAR RADIATION

Artificial Sources

MICROWAVES
ELECTRIC MOTORS
MOBILE PHONES
RADIO

POWER LINES

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               70


OPPORTUNITY #10

What if geriatrics was the new paediatrics?

BREAKING
THE OLD
MOULD

Geriatric medicine evolves into a flourishing field, as large
and vital to society as paediatrics.


MEGATREND

Advanced Health and Nutrition

TRENDS 

Future of Purpose & Work

Immersive Technologies & Wearables
Longevity & Well-being
Neuroscience

Internet of Things (IoT)

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Health & Healthcare
Immersive Technologies
Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


By 2050, the percentage of
people aged over 65 will
exceed 20% in

6 OUT 22

MENA countries

Globally, life expectancy increased by more than six years between
2000 and 2019 — from approximately 67 years to 73 years.286 At 72
years  in 2022,287 by 2050, life expectancy is expected to reach an
average age of 77 years worldwide.288 However, it is not just long life that
one seeks, but long life in good health.

Referred to as health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE), the number

of years in good health has also increased from approximately 58 years
in 2000 to close to 64 years in 2019, i.e. almost 6 years.289 However,
this is due to declining mortality rather than reduced years lived

in poor health.290

In 2018, the number of people aged over 65 officially exceeded those
aged under 5.291 In 2021, 10% of the world’s population were

over 65292 and 25% were between 0 and 14 years old.293 By 2050, the
proportion of the population aged 65 or over will rise to

more than double that of children under 5294 amount to 15.5% of the
world’s population.295

The populations of more than half of the nations in the Middle East and
North Africa (MENA) rergion will increase by more than a third (some
by more than two-thirds) by 2025.296 About 6% of the population of the
MENA region is aged 65 or over, ranging from under 1% in the United
Arab Emirates to 4% in Saudi Arabia and about 8% in Lebanon.297
Nevertheless, improved health and declining fertility, excluding
exceptional events, will result in an increase in people’s median age;
by   2050, the percentage of people aged over 65 will exceed 20% in

6 out of the 22 MENA countries and will range between 12% and 19%

in 9 others.298 The highest proportion of those over 65 will be in the UAE
(28%), Bahrain (25%) and Oman (22.5%).299

The global geriatric care services market stood at just over $1 trillion
in 2021 and is expected to increase to $1.8 trillion by the end of 2030,
at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6%.300 Today, the United
States projects a shortage of nearly 27,000 geriatricians by 2025.301


THE OPPORTUNITY

As lives become longer and healthier, a combination of precision
medicine, nanomedicine, neuroscience and advanced machine
intelligence make the field of geriatric medicine lucrative for investment
and   a popular field of practice for students of medicine.

Digital realities302 and advances in neuroscience303 are helping medical
students to empathise with an ageing population. In parallel, advances
in nanotherapeutics,304 the use of nanomaterials to improve the
pharmacology of medicines and precision medicine are reducing the
challenges doctors face in treating a multitude of diseases and ailments
that older people experience. These advances would help optimise

the delivery of medicines and avoid physician burnout. With room for
innovation and a possible better professional future for themselves,
medical students could choose to specialise in geriatrics and so
contribute to boosting the proportion of people’s lives lived in better
health beyond 50% – a figure unchanged since 1960.305

BENEFITS          RISKS


Better health and healthcare
in later life. Reduction in the
economic cost of care due to a
healthier older population.

Better mental health for older
people and those who care for
them. Ability of older adults to
spend more on their basic needs
as healthcare costs go down.

Resistance to change and
hesitancy in the medical industry
about investing in elder care.

Despite advances, better
health in older years may not
vastly improve.


HEALTH REIMAGINED 

BREAKING THE OLD MOULD 


Life Expectancy

77

YEARS

72

YEARS

2022                   2050

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               74


THE 50 OPPORTUNITIES 

COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

COLLABORATION
ADVANCED

Enhance problem-solving, innovation and trust by
redesigning collaborative structures and processes
between humans – including across generations as well as
between machines and between humans and machines.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               75 


OPPORTUNITY #11

What if machines could brainstorm ideas?

AI AT

THE WHITE
BOARD

Advanced machine intelligence identifies the innovations
and business ideas that are most likely to succeed reducing
volatility in venture funding and increasing innovation

and growth.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
HumanXMachine

Ideation, IP & Entrepreneurship

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Cyber & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Insurance & Reinsurance
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               76 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

From healthcare, financial services and manufacturing to entertainment,
energy and transport, Artificial Intelligence (AI) provides enormous
opportunities. The biggest gains by 2030 are expected to come from
product   and service enhancements with increased personalisation,
attractiveness and affordability over time.306

The AI market, including software, hardware and services, is expected
to be worth $900 billion by 2026, with a compound annual growth
rate (CAGR) of 19%. The category of AI applications, development

and deployment currently has the third highest year-on-year growth,
following IT and business services.307

Funding, whether from venture capital, public funding, donations or
even social impact funds, drive innovation and scale up start-ups. There
are over 1,150 unicorns (privately owned start-up companies valued at
over $1 billion) in the world and at least 47 countries have one unicorn.

The United States (612), China (174) and India (65) have the highest
numbers of unicorns.308 However, funding – and entrepreneurship –
goes through peaks and troughs depending on the overall economic
conditions. For example, in the third quarter of 2022, venture funding
suffered an approximately 50% year-on-year drop amid fears of a
recession and wider market turmoil.309

The AI market is expected to be worth

$900

BILLION

by 2026, with a CAGR of

19%

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               77 


THE OPPORTUNITY

From small companies to major industries, selecting an idea to take to
market can be an existential choice. For governments too, identifying
a policy or service or how best to deploy funds is a challenge with
society-wide implications. Technology can increasingly help with
rapid prototyping and testing – but even that is a waste of resources

if the end product, service or policy fails to draw demand or deliver
value. Sometimes even the ideas themselves result in less change than
originally thought.

Advances in machine intelligence and quantum computing can enhance
predictive modelling of innovative products, services and business
models with a high degree of accuracy. Algorithms can integrate

billions of data points, allowing innovators and entrepreneurs to explore
various approaches and product or service designs before taking an
idea forward. Many more ideas can be explored this way than through
traditional start-up and product development approaches.

The simulated results offer investors, regulators and other stakeholders
transparent and detailed overviews of the likelihood of success and any
potential risks. This could also mean some products can be fast-tracked
for regulatory approval. Predictive modelling, for example, could help

to identify pharmaceutical or financial products that offer significant
immediate societal benefit during a time of crisis. Greater reliance on
predictive modelling can help to reduce volatility in venture funding and
increase innovation and growth.

BENEFITS          RISKS


More efficient and effective
allocation of time and capital with
a  rise in innovation, growth and
entrepreneurial energy deployed
to more new product ideas.

Advanced machine intelligence
missing possible ‘long-tail’
success stories, such as 3M’s
Post-Its or durable fashion trends
including Levi’s or Birkenstocks.

Dependency on machines for ideas
starts to limit human-sourced

idea generation that cannot be
captured through technology.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               78 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

AI AT THE WHITEBOARD 

There are

OVER 1,150
UNICORNS

in the world and at least 47 countries have one unicorn.

The United States, China and India have the highest numbers of unicorns

CHINA
(174)


INDIA
(65)

OTHERS
(299)

UNITED
STATES
(612)

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               79 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

HUMAN VERSUS MACHINE 

OPPORTUNITY #12

What if the future of work was to challenge
the machine?

HUMANS
VERSUS
MACHINE

The value of human creativity and imagination grows
into roles that intentionally challenge machines and
counterbalance embedded Artificial Intelligence (AI)
logic uncovering new areas for research, development
and innovation.


MEGATREND

Life with Autonomous Robots

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
Future of Purpose & Work
HumanXMachine

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Insurance & Reinsurance
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Travel & Tourism
Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               80 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

HUMAN VERSUS MACHINE 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               81 



In a survey exploring global
societal attitudes towards AI,

39%

of respondents agreed that AI

made them nervous and

52%

believed that products and

services using AI have more
benefits than drawbacks,
but only

50%

knew which types of products and

services use AI

WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Just over one billion jobs could be significantly changed in the next
decade because of AI, automation and technological advances310. More
specifically, the World Economic Forum’s 2020 Future of Jobs Reportm
suggested that AI would replace 85 million jobs across the globe by
2025, counterbalanced by its potential to create 97 million jobs in the
same period.311 There is a strong consensus among experts and busi-
ness leaders that most jobs will become automated in over 15 areas,
including accounting, sales and data coordination.312

At the same time, society is depending on governments to put in place
laws and regulations to guarantee the ethical use of AI. In a survey ex-
ploring global societal attitudes towards AI, 39% of respondents agreed
that AI made them nervous and 52% believed that products and services
using AI have more benefits than drawbacks, but only 50% knew which
types of products and services use AI.313 The pattern is the same in most
countries. For example, in Saudi Arabia, people anticipate that AI will
improve education, entertainment, shopping, safety and transportation
by more than 80%. Similarly, those surveyed in Argentina, Chile

and China, also expected the same areas to improve and also by
more than 80%.314

As more businesses adopt AI, more of them develop ethical frameworks
that take into account relevant laws and regulations.315 In a 2021 PwC
survey to executives in Japan, India, the US and the UK, one in five
companies had an ethical framework in place for AI development and
only   5% do not use AI in any way compared to 47% the year before. Such
frameworks will continue to influence how money is invested in AI and
address concerns about the reliability of AI applications over time.316

Five areas where AI is expected to have a transformative impact: in the
home, in education and learning new things, in entertainment, in trans-
portation and in shopping.317 As recently as the 2022 FIFA World Cup,
from  the soccer ball and player's outfits to the stadium and surrounding
area, with data fed from embedded sensors — up to 29 markers on play-
ers’ bodies — AI was used to make calls on offsides and penalty shots,
crowding and temperature regulation.318

By 2030, AI is forecasted to have added $320 billion to the economy of
the Middle East and North African (MENA) region. This will be achieved
by improving supply chains and enhancing trust in the nature, quality
and quantity of goods purchased. It will improve back-office process-
es (invoicing, delivery and returns) and reduce the amount of working
capital needed. The annual growth in the economic contribution of AI

is predicted to reach between 20% and 34% per year across the region,
with the fastest growth occurring in the United Arab Emirates and then
Saudi Arabia.319

m Latest source on future of jobs and AI.


THE OPPORTUNITY

Advanced machine intelligence and automation are likely to mean that
knowledge workers will seek new expression for their talents. With
advanced machine intelligence fully embedded in daily life, achieving
effective human oversight of these systems can prove to be difficult for
even the most robust policies that govern trustworthy AI. By finding new
roles, people can continue to use their skills and insight to influence
societies and systems.

In the future, knowledge workers will be able to use their creative
thinking to challenge machines uncovering new areas for research,
development and innovation. Knowledge workers could also examine
new perspectives and behavioural changes among smaller or fringe
groups to prompt AI systems to include new or niche ideas in their
analysis and results that may not otherwise be captured. This in

turn could help to further improve fast-changing sectors – such as
education, entertainment, transportation and shopping – that have
been the most disrupted by AI.

BENEFITS          RISKS


More creative and imaginative
solutions emerging from
people challenging the way

AI is introduced. Enhanced
prosperity and well-being,
not just additional growth.

Unintended consequences
of people’s unconscious bias

influencing the development of
systems and analysis. Tensions
in emotive or sensitive areas,

where people may oppose optimal
AI-led strategies.


OPPORTUNITY #13

What if we had a new model for public goods?

FROM
PUBLIC
‘GOOD’ TO
‘GREAT’

Reframing the provision of public goods to a new model
of Society—Public—Private (SPP) cooperation for public

goods opening up new solutions in health, the environment
and elsewhere.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Cross-sectoral Partnerships
Community-based Solutions

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food

Communication Technologies & Systems
Cyber & Information Security

Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Utilities

Government Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Public goods are goods and services that every member of a community
can use without exclusion and without impacting the ability for another
member to use it fully.320 While what constitutes public goods differs
across countries, they are typically provided for by government and may
include education, science, infrastructure, the environment, health,321
technology and culture.322

Other than direct government spending, public—private partnerships
have been used in the provision of public goods. Evidence from
Australia, Canada, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, Eastern
Europe,  Latin America and parts of Asia indicate that, when compared
to traditional healthcare approaches, public–private partnerships re-
duce budget overruns by up to 60%, reduce construction delays by up
to 70% and reduce overall costs by up to 25%.323 However, such partner-
ships are complex, sometimes result in reduced quality of related ser-
vices and face the same risks and concerns that are faced in the direct
provision

of public goods324 particularly when serving the poor.325

Cooperatives, a model of cooperation where people own and control
an underlying business to fulfil common needs beyond just profits,326
is often considered an alternative for the provision of public goods.

There are 3 million cooperatives around the world and the largest 300
global cooperatives, more than half of which are located in Europe, had
a total turnover of $2.2 billion in 2020 and accounted for some 10% of

the world’s employed population.327 From agriculture and food (including
fishing) to education, health, financial services and trade, cooperatives
are generating value through their unique governance and core values
while pursuing business innovation.328

Worldwide, the requirement
for infrastructure investment is
estimated at nearly

$4

TRILLION

annually through to 2030

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               85 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Governments will increasingly continue to face significant costs and
opportunities wherever it is necessary to upgrade public goods to both
meet community needs and benefit from efficiencies in new technologi-
cal innovation in health, education, infrastructure and other areas.

In the area of infrastructure, for example, new mobility patterns and
solutions – such as hyperloops and fully autonomous road use – will
require huge investments and a far greater range of collaboration and
expertise than in the past.329 There is also a pressing need for new and
improved infrastructure in the face of rising urbanisation and a grow-
ing global population.330 Worldwide, the requirement for infrastructure
investment is estimated at nearly $4 trillion annually through to 2030,
with the greatest demand in emerging markets.331

The rise of digital realities, distributed ledger technologies (DLT)

and new models of governance and social contracts332 could reduce the
time and capital needed for public goods. Together with reframing pub-
lic goods for outcomes beyond the provision of goods and services, a
new model of Society–Public–Private (SPP) partnerships could be
used for public goods.

Overcoming challenges in existing models of cooperation for public
goods, the SPP partnerships could have economic objectives based
on public benefit with socially oriented sets of principles and a shared

identity among partners.333 Governments, not-for-profits and corporate
actors could come together and engage transparently and with less
bureaucracy, using real-time information flows and Artificial Intelligence
(AI)   to support their decisions. Distributed ledger technologies would
enable fully transparent monitoring and reporting of investments and
budgets, increasing trust between the private sector, the public sector,
residents and citizens.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved planning and delivery
of public goods at lower cost.

Improved outcomes for residents
and citizens.

Failure to establish autonomy
and independence from partners.

Reduction of public revenues over
time. Loss of public sector control
over strategic assets.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               86 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

FROM PUBLIC ‘GOOD’ TO ‘GREAT’ 

The largest 300 global cooperatives,

more than half of which are located in

EUROPE

accounted for some

10%

in 2021 of the world’s employed population

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               87


OPPORTUNITY #14

What if differing opinions could connect and
improve business and society?

AGREEING
TO
DISAGREE
AS         ONE

Brain–computer interfaces (BCIs) and advances in brain-
mapping techniques make the most of diverse human
thought, promoting cooperation and tolerance, reversing
fragmentation in societies and fostering cognitive diversity
and the ability to have productive discussions.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Future of Purpose & Work
Generational & Cognitive Diversity

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Communication Technologies & Systems
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Health & Healthcare
Immersive Technologies
Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

A McKinsey & Company report found that companies in the top quartiles
for gender diversity and ethnic diversity on executive teams were 25%
and 36% more likely (respectively) to have above-average profitability.
Outperformance is more common when companies have ethnic diversity
than   when they have gender diversity.334

Integrating diverse views and experiences can contribute to more robust
decisions and outcomes for organisations and communities.335 In
organisations, cognitive diversity in how people solve problems
enhances innovation by 20% and reduces risks by 30%.336 Purposely
managing cognitive diversity can create high-performing teams,
particularly when those teams are generating new ideas.337

This also applies in the boardroom. One study found that boards whose
directors had a range of qualifications, skillsets and genders had
enhanced cognitive diversity, and this contributed to increases in

their firm’s value and effectiveness.338

Miami, Florida, is the most diverse city in the world in terms of origin,
with 58% of its residents being international immigrants. Second is
Toronto, Canada – home to over 250 ethnicities and 175 different
languages.339 The residents of Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates,
are   made up of over 200 nationalities.340

MIAMI, FLORIDA        TORONTO, CANADA         DUBAI, UAE 


Most diverse city in the
world in terms of origin, with

58%

of its residents being
international immigrants

Over

250

ethnicities and

175

different languages

Over

200

nationalities


THE OPPORTUNITY

Ultra-precise functional brain mapping combined with state-of-the-art
transcranial brain–machine connectivity may open doors to a scientific
form  of ‘mind-reading’. The result will be a highly nuanced understand-
ing of how biochemical, genetic, physical and environmental factors
shape how individuals experience the world and respond to negative
and positive situations.

This knowledge can reshape our understanding of cognitive diversi-
ty (also called ‘intellectual diversity’),341 informing and improving our

responses to the whole range of human views and behaviours. A deeper
understanding of innate and acquired cognitive differences can improve
the integration of diversity of thought into decision-making and promote
cooperation and tolerance among groups with diverging views. This un-
derstanding can be used to rethink and inform school curricula, educa-
tional approaches, team-building and diplomatic and policy thinking.

Demographic diversity – including by gender, age and ethnicity – does
not substantially increase cognitive diversity.342 Nevertheless, as com-
munities become more diverse through increasing migration and mobili-
ty,  it may become more challenging to navigate differing views and
values. Benefitting from these differences will be critical to a safe future.

Improving our understanding of how our own brains work and the rela-
tionships between biochemistry, genetics, epigenetics and lived experi-
ence can offer a fresh perspective on both our common and our diverse
cognitive traits and attitudes.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Better ability to structure teams
and groups so that diversity is
leveraged. Enhanced outcomes
across education and careers
for everyone. Improved bonds

within and across diverse groups
and communities.

An increased focus on cognitive
diversity overlooking original
business objectives and failing to
meet strategic goals. Misuse of
brain-mapping technologies to
manipulate  or repress individuals.


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

AGREEING TO DISAGREE AS ONE 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               91 


OPPORTUNITY #15

What if generational diversity was a must
in the board room?

ALL-
GENERATION
DIRECTORSHIPS

Company, public sector and civil society boards of directors
and trustees systematically include people of all generations
as a principle of corporate governance embedded in all
legal, regulatory and international standards.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Generational & Cognitive Diversity
Community-based Solutions

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Metals & Mining

Real Estate
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               92 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The global average age of a corporate board member has been rising in
recent years and stood at nearly 60 in 2021.343 In the United States, the
average age of a member on the boards of the S&P 500 in 2022 was
higher than the global average at nearly 63, with women directors
making up 46% of new independent director appointments. In 2022,
people aged 50 or younger accounted for 18% of new directors and 6%
of all directors on the boards of the S&P 500.344

As the average life expectancy is expected to increase from 72 years345
in 2022 to 77 years by 2050,346 more experienced workers will want

to work beyond retirement or opt for flexible retirement.347 In parallel,
young people aged between 15 and 24 currently make up close to 23% of
the global population and this proportion is expected to grow to around
37% by 2050.348 Young people aged between 15 and 29 make up 24% of
the population in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) compared to
19% in Europe.349 By 2050, young people in the MENA region will
account for around 23% of an increasingly youthful population350
compared  to 15% of a decreasing young population in Europe.351

The global average age of a corporate board

member stood at nearly

60

YEARS

in 2021

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               93 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Multigenerational workforces increase resilience and productivity in
workplaces.352 Even though there is a risk of conflict due to potentially
vastly differing opinions, multiple generations can learn from each other
and as a result come up with better solutions to problems.353

The inclusion of multiple generations on a board can provide greater
insight into how an organisation’s strategy might affect long-term
prosperity and well-being for itself and the wider society. Including
young people on boards brings increased legitimacy to their views,
making their status as future stakeholders a real and present concern
for strategic decisions. Equally, including people with more experience
brings long-term views and outlooks of which those with less experience
may not be aware, making potentially better decisions due to increased
understanding of their potential implications.

By viewing issues through a multigenerational lens, organisations can
avoid unintended consequences, such as negative environmental or
social impacts and the direct and indirect losses and reputational risks
that may emerge from them. The outcome could be more resilient
companies with better growth prospects today and in the future.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Greater diversity of thinking
and long-term vision. Improved
outcomes for business and
society, and reduced risk of
negative economic and social
impacts of goods and services.

‘Multigeneration-washing’
or ‘youth-washing’, where

organisations try to broadcast
their belief in older or younger
populations by inviting them
to   join boards but without fully

integrating them into decision-
making.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               94 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

ALL-GENERATION DIRECTORSHIPS 

IN 2022,
WOMEN
DIRECTORS
MADE UP
46%

of new director appointments on

the boards of the S&P 500

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               95 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

RULES FOR SPACE, INC. 

OPPORTUNITY #16

What if space traffic was internationally regulated?

RULES FOR
SPACE, INC.

Using the analogy of air traffic control, an international
space transport association defines and enforces ‘space
traffic’ rules for safety and best practice for future growth
in space transport and commercial development.


MEGATREND

Borderless World - Fluid Economies

TRENDS 

Future of Space
International Collaboration
Legal Transformation

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Communication Technologies & Systems
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance  & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Travel & Tourism
Government Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               96 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

RULES FOR SPACE, INC. 

WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

There are more than 70 space agencies around the world, of which
16 have successfully conducted a space launch and 7 have been able
to probe extra-terrestrial locations – such as the Moon, Mars or deep
space and more than a dozen additional national agencies are on the

way, along with an increasing number of private space agencies, such as
Blue Origin and SpaceX.354 No fewer than seven missions are planned for
2023; from the United Arab Emirates, the United States, Japan, South
Korea, Russia and India along with several from private companies.355

It is estimated that 85% of all known satellites, probes, landers, crewed
spacecraft and space station flight elements launched into earth’s orbit
or beyond have been registered with the UN’s Office for Outer Space
Affairs (UNOOSA).356 In the latest press releases from UNOOSA, 14,000
satellites had been launched357 and 11,000 satellites could be orbiting
the earth.358

The global space industry could generate $1 trillion in revenue

by 2040.359 That is just over double the size of the space economy
in 2021, estimated at $470 billion,360 which is partly driven by more
attractive investing in the space economy as the cost of launching
a satellite has gone down from $200 million to about $60 million
via reusable rockets, with the potential to decrease further to

$500,000 via mass production.361

The global space industry could generate

$1

in revenue by 2040

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               97


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

RULES FOR SPACE, INC. 

THE OPPORTUNITY

Space, as a new economy, has multiple stakeholders and is covered
by various non-binding global regulations and treaties, some that
have limited signatories and do not cover commercial interests.362

While UNOOSA promotes responsible development in space and
outer space activities, fostering international solutions to problems
will be important.363 Space will see the arrival of more sectors in the
future, spanning transportation, food, energy, mining, tourism,
science and more.

An international space transport association – with a multilateral
agreement – could play a valuable role in accelerating the benefits
of space-related opportunities. Such an organisation could make
development in space safer and more cost-effective and reduce

technological risk and human error in this complex area. The association
could ensure common language and agreement on the interpretation

of changing terms.364 This can help to resolve disputes about how the
space economy can be developed.365 It can also facilitate the process
of defining vertical limits in outer space beyond national and
international airspaces.

Increased space traffic provides numerous opportunities for learning
and tourism, but with these activities come a greater risk of accidental
or malicious damage. As earth’s orbits are more frequently used for
transport (of both people and goods), research and technological
applications, there will be more need for transparency and oversight.
It    will be important to consider who and what is transported, when and
what trajectories and orbits are used, how the increase in space debris
is managed and how to preserve space for future generations.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Increased safety and security
while enabling economic growth
through space travel and
exploration.

A lack of collaboration among
public and private actors.

Unfair lobbying efforts by well-
capitalised special interest groups.


14,000

SATELLITES

have been launched, and

COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

RULES FOR SPACE, INC. 

11,000

SATELLITES

could be orbiting

the earth


OPPORTUNITY #17

What if comprehensive data was a public good?

A WIDE
WORLD
OF DATA

Enabled by incentives for data-sharing, a secure platform is
set up where entrepreneurs, researchers and policy-makers
can share and access vast aggregated and anonymised user
datasets and related analysis, which aids global innovation,
learning and discovery.


MEGATREND

Devaluation of Raw Data

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence

Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT)
Ideation, IP & Entrepreneurship

Open Data

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Insurance & Reinsurance


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

In 2021, around 2.5 exabytes (1 exabyte = 1 billion gigabytes) of

datan were being generated daily and, with the Internet of Things (IoT),
this number is set to grow exponentially to 175,000 exabyteso per year
by 2025366 and a yottabyte of data per year, i.e. 1 million exabytes, by
2030.367

In a worldwide survey of academic researchers, 80% of the respondents
stated that data should be made openly available as a standard prac-
tice.368 In contrast, however, researchers are more inclined to share their
research data where it is likely to have an impact on citations (67%) and
the visibility of their research (61%), rather than where it might be of
public benefit (56%).369

In the business world, open data supports innovation and growth by
revealing opportunities for companies to build new services, identify
savings and improve their operations.370 However, only an estimated
6% of businesses globally use, access and share data to attain business
benefits.371 Even when they do collect data, only 38% are in a position to
extract value from it to inform their decision-making.372

Over the next decade, 70% of the new value created in the economy will
be based on business models that rely on digitally enabled platforms.373
While cross-border data flows are key to the growing digital economy,
legislation – such as the European Union’s General Data Protection Reg-
ulation (GDPR) and other data privacy laws coming into effect374 – will
continue to change how and what data is accessible by both the public
sector and private businesses.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
has been exploring government access to private data integral to the
global digital economy.375 It recognises that open data can unlock new
social value, enabling better policies.376 Agreed in October 2021, the
OECD’s ‘Recommendation of the Council on Enhancing Access to and
Sharing of Data’ includes the first ever set of principles on how govern-
ments could access cross-sectoral data while protecting the rights of
individuals and organisations.377

In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, datasets covering
national censuses, government budgets and international trade data are
available but only two-thirds are available online.378 Dubai Pulse is an
example of a portal in the United Arab Emirates where transactional and
economic data pertaining to entities within the government of Dubai are
accessible and available for analysis.379

n  2.5 quintillion bytes, converted to exabytes. Just over 900 exabytes per year.
o  Converted from 175 zettabytes.


THE OPPORTUNITY

A central shared, aggregated, anonymised dataset could accelerate
progress across many fields and sectors. Allowing broader access
to  data, even if just within borders, would open up new avenues for

research and innovation. Supported by advanced machine intelligence
and possibly distributed ledger technologies, local and international
agreements on data-sharing and advances in cybersecurity would
ensure anonymisation in the aggregation of user data from private,
public and research organisations.

Initially, the repository could include user data shared through mobility,
learning, e-commerce and digital services. These sources could then
expand over time to include data points relating to health, wearables and
the living world, including plants and the environment more generally.

This wealth of data would spur developments in advanced machine
intelligence and powerful predictive Artificial Intelligence (AI) models,
enabling real-time simulation of impacts and generating innovation and
growth opportunities in fundamental and applied research and also in
entrepreneurship.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Faster, more accurate modelling
in research and innovation. More
of a level playing field for actors
in the public and private spheres.

Exploitation of data (even
aggregated data) to identify
individuals for criminal or
malicious purposes, unless
extremely advanced security
measures are implemented.


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

A WIDE WORLD OF DATA

Only an estimated

businesses globally,

access and share data to attain
business benefits

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              103 


OPPORTUNITY #18

What if we adopted Space Development Goals
(SpDGs)?

UNIVERSAL
UNIVERSE
GOALS

A set of universal goals acts as a call to action to protect
space and ensure that all who want to access it can do so
without unduly increasing debris or space pollution and
safeguarding space for generations to come.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

International Collaboration
Future of Space

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals

Communication Technologies & Systems
Cyber & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Energy, Oil & Gas, & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance    & Reinsurance

Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining
Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              104 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
was established to prevent or reduce the creation of space debris.380
A set of space debris mitigation guidelines were endorsed by the
General Assembly in 2007 but these are not legally binding and have
not been adopted by UN member countries. 381

Meanwhile, there has been a striking rise in the number of satellites
being launched into space. Satellites are providing increasingly
accurate and important data for a host of tasks and activities, including
communications, earth observation, navigation and GPS, military
support     and weather prediction. Estimates project that, by 2030, close
to 990 satellites will be launched every year382 compared to an average
of 230383 per year in the previous decade.384

Out of potentially 11,000 satellites385 circling the earth, only around half

— 5,465 — as of May 2022, are operational.386 The countries and bodies
that are at the forefront of the satellite industry include the United
States, China, Russia, the United Kingdom, Japan, India, the European
Space Agency, Canada and Germany. In 2021, among the 30 countries
with the highest numbers of satellites launched into space, the United
Arab Emirates stood in 20th position tied with Saudi Arabia, Switzerland
and Taiwan, each with 14 satellites in orbit.387

The market size for global space debris monitoring and removal reached

$866 million in 2021 and at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of
7% it is expected to almost double, to $1.5 billion, by 2029.388

Out of potentially 11,000 satellites
circling the earth, only around half —

5,465

SATELLITES

— as of May 2022, are operational

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              105 


THE OPPORTUNITY

As space becomes busier, humanity risks repeating mistakes made
concerning the earth’s environment by introducing objects into space
that ultimately threaten the safety of craft, crews and possibly even the
earth itself. Legally binding goals to keep space pollution to a minimum
and to find ways to safely collect and dispose of large debris would
enable safer space operations for generations to come.

The exploration and exploitation of space could offer humanity a
novel source of solutions and resources. Examples include new ways
of medical diagnosis, testing new materials for improving solar cell
performance, radiation protection and concrete manufacturing,
biomining for new minerals and testing biomedical devices to aid

re-design, under new conditions that are impossible to achieve
on earth.389

However, in the long term, these possibilities will result in a build-up of
abandoned and disused equipment and other forms of space pollution.
Some chemicals used in space technologies burn up, potentially
depleting the ozone layer and harming the environment, when they

re-enter the atmosphere.390 Defunct satellites and other debris can
present hazards to space exploration, with the liability for orbital debris
particularly challenging in the case of smaller pieces of debris whose
origins may not be known.391

Besides risks of injury or damage because of space debris re-entering
the earth’s atmosphere,392 space debris also poses a critical threat

to the launch of new satellites and has the ability to harm satellites
already in orbit. It also presents a risk to infrastructure, such as
spacecraft and space stations. If enough debris ends up in orbit, it could
ultimately lead to the ‘Kessler syndrome’ scenario, in which there is a
self-generating cascade of ever-increasing collisions, rendering some
orbits unusable.393

BENEFITS          RISKS


A safer space environment with
greater collaboration among
actors, contributing to growth.
Mitigation of risks associated with
falling space debris onto earth.

Adoption and/or enforcement
of goals too late to prevent

a significant build-up of space
debris. Deployment of space
pollution rules to prevent
certain actors using certain
orbits or to block them from
launching satellites.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              106 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

UNIVERSAL UNIVERSE GOALS 

By 2030, close to

990

SATELLITES

will be launched every year compared to

an average of 230 per year in the previous decade

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               107


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

THE ULTIMATE CLIMATE CALCULATOR 

OPPORTUNITY #19

What if we built a digital climate catalogue?

THE
ULTIMATE
CLIMATE
CALCULATOR

Going beyond the carbon footprint, a digital climate
catalogue allows governments, businesses and even
individuals to calculate their environmental impact in real
time. Fully automated, this valuation system reveals the
likely impacts of potential policy and investment choices.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
ESG & Beyond GDP
Internet of Things (IoT)
Net-zero

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas, & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              108 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Climate change will affect all areas of life, and the consequences
of inaction are well documented. For example, some species face

extinction with every degree of increase in temperature, and severe
water shortages could lead to the displacement of 700 million people
globally by 2030.394 The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region
is one of the driest in the world, with 12 of the most water-scarce
countries located in the region.395

Approaches to assigning an economic value to nature vary, based
on context, theoretical perspective and approach to uncertainty
and complexity.396397 Back in 1997, researchers defined 17 categories

for ecosystems – ranging from gas and water regulation to pollination,
waste treatment, recreation and food production – and estimated the
value of the entire biosphere to be an average of $33 trillion per year.398
In 2011, the value of earth was estimated at $5 quadrillion (quadrillion =
a million billion).399 In 2022, it was estimated that every dollar invested
in the restoration of degraded land yields $7–$30 in returns from job
creation and carbon capture.400

Climate change also threatens health as projections reveal 250,000
additional deaths will occur annually between 2030 and 2050 due to
climate-sensitive diseases such as heat stress, malnutrition, dengue,
malaria and diarrhoea. This will initially cost societies up to $4 billion
annually, with the amount likely to increase in the future.401

Mostly in North America, and capturing more than 45 million tonnes
(Mt) of carbon dioxide per year particularly through natural gas
processing plants,402 the global carbon-capture and storage market was
valued at just over $3 billion in 2021.403 With aspirational climate targets
and associated government and non-government incentives, the market
is expected to grow to a $55 billion per year market by 2030.404

Carbon markets are in an early stage of development in some major
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. The United Arab Emirates
and Saudi Arabia have committed to achieving net zero emissions by
2050 and 2060 respectively.405

The Internet of Things (IoT) holds much promise when it comes
to the environment and the possibilities for linking technology to
a catalogue of earth’s data. The technology is already applied to

monitoring livestock,406 water quality in fishponds407 and environmental
compliance.408 Globally, the number of IoT connections grew by

8% in 2021, reaching 12 billion points. By 2025, 27 billion connected
IoT devices are expected to be active.409

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              109 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The capacity to build more accurate predictive models allows
for the building of a digital whole-earth catalogue that would be

able to demonstrate how decisions would affect the environment
immediately and over time. IoT and advanced machine intelligence
could    be employed to build more accurate models and reports using
data inputs from ultra-high-definition satellite imagery, atmospheric
and bioacoustics (animal and marine life sounds) sensors and DNA
technologies (to track soil and insect health). All of this data would feed
into   a self-updating global model of human–environment interaction
resembling an ecological digital twin.

Businesses, governments and communities could forecast the effects
of their infrastructure usage, upcoming projects or changes to their
operations or supply chains in terms of their impact on local and
global ecosystems. Going beyond the carbon footprint,410 the digital

whole-earth catalogue would capture changes in the value and flows of
natural assets. It would calculate – in real time – the costs, benefits and
economic impacts of investments and behaviours affecting air quality,
greenhouse gas emissions, water and biodiversity. This would enable
efforts to go beyond economic growth and address climate risk.411

BENEFITS          RISKS


The possibility of comparable
measurements through a common
metric  and model(s) available to
all. Potential to reveal new sources
of value and revenue streams.

Undervaluation or overvaluation
of certain forms of capital in
relation to climate impact.

Incorrect picture of progress
through distorted metrics.

Globally, the number of IoT connections
grew by


8%

By 2025,

in 2021, reaching

12 billion points

27 BILLION

connected IoT devices are expected to be active.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              110 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

THE ULTIMATE CLIMATE CALCULATOR 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              111 


OPPORTUNITY #20

What if knowledge was effortlessly shared?

DEEPER
THOUGHT

Shaped by advances in brain–computer interfaces (BCIs)
and advanced machine intelligence, knowledge sharing
becomes cross-disciplinary, cross-geographical and cross-
generational, with ever increasing speed and minimal effort,
shaping the future of knowledge.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence

Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCI)
Future of Purpose & Work
Quantum Technology

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas, & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Metals & Mining

Real Estate
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

As demonstrated during the COVID-19 pandemic, interruptions to learning
can occur and may do so again in the future. As generations come and go,
our understanding of how knowledge is acquired and disseminated may
also change.

Social media, messaging applications and video-conferencing tools were
vital during the pandemic. Social media sites saw an increase of 61% in web
traffic during the first three months of the pandemic and video-conferencing
calls increased five-fold; as a result, social media platforms were seen to be
complementary to learning with peers regardless of geographical location
or time.412 Yet, half of the children in a third of low-income countries did not
participate in remote learning during COVID, which is concerning given that
the percentage of 10-year-olds who cannot read or understand a simple
story by the end of primary school is 53% in low- and middle-income
countries and up to 80% in the poorest countries.413

In higher education and research institutions, journal articles are key to
learning and the development of new knowledge. While the global research
publication market contracted to nearly $27 billion in 2020 as a result of the
pandemic, it is forecast to regain its pre-pandemic (2019) position of $28
billion  by 2023.414 The United States accounts for 40% of the global revenue
in the scholarly publishing market, followed by the Asia Pacific region at
29%, Europe at 26.5% and the Middle East, Africa and other parts of the
Americas at 4.5%.415 Some 70% of journals worldwide cover science,
technology and mathematics and 30% cover social science and

the humanities.416

Related to article publications, on average, peer reviewers complete from
five to – surprisingly – over a thousand reviews of draft articles in a year,417
and 10% of reviewers are responsible for half of peer reviews.418 Globally,
the total time reviewers spent on peer reviews in 2020 amounted to

100 million hours or 15,000 years, and this work is rarely compensated
financially.419 Monetary estimates of the value of the time peer reviewers
spent    on reviews in 2020 amount to more than $1.5 billion for reviewers in
the United States, 420 $600 million for those in China421 and $400 million for
those in the United Kingdom.422

In the workplace, despite technological advances in document and workflow
management, more employees are finding it difficult to extract the
knowledge they need from online individual or shared files or platforms;
instead, many obtain it directly from colleagues.423 Moreover, because

of missing and/or poor-quality content, employees who find it difficult to
obtain this information are more likely to rate the value of any information
they obtain as inadequate.424 Yet, online content and associated knowledge
platforms continue to increase: the estimated value of the global
knowledge-management market is expected to amount to $1.1 trillion by
2026,         at a CAGR of almost 20%.425


THE OPPORTUNITY

The combination of technological advances in brain–computer
interfaces (BCIs) and advanced machine intelligence, including
quantum computing, restructures how individuals and societies
collaborate and construct knowledge evolving into something that

is cross-disciplinary, cross-geographical and even cross-generational.
Our understanding of what constitutes knowledge and how knowledge
is obtained will change in terms of both speed and breadth.

While digital realities and generative AI like ChatGPT from OpenAI426
may enhance the efficiency of operations, programming, reporting,
documentation and research, it is neuroscience and BCI that will
fundamentally change how we approach education, higher education,
research, careers, spiritual and cultural fulfilment and even tourism.
Connected, people will be able to access and upload knowledge
instantaneously and what will stand out is depth of knowledge

and analysis: these will distinguish between those who are highly
knowledgeable and those who are not.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Increased agility and adaptability
in addition to improved
collaboration and innovation.

Overemphasis on certain forms
of knowledge due to unconscious
bias, with the result that time

and funding are diverted
away from areas with greater
potential. Increased access

to information overload giving
rise to mental health issues and
poor decision making.


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

DEEPER THOUGHT 

HALF
OF
THE

CHILDREN

in a third of low-income countries

did not participate in remote learning
during COVID

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              115 


OPPORTUNITY #21

What if no one was left behind in the transition
to digital realities?

CROSSING
THE DIVIDE

A global task force adopts a ‘nexus’ approach to ensuring
that every person on earth is included in the transition to
digital realities.


MEGATREND

Digital Realities

TRENDS 

Future of Purpose & Work

Immersive Technologies & Wearables
Internet of Things (IoT)

Mobilising Innovation
Virtual Reality

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Government Services
Professional Services
Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              116 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Not everyone has access to computers or the internet. As of 2021, 57%
of those living in developing countries used the internet compared to
90% in developed countries.427 Of lower quality, a 5GB fixed-broadband
connection costs 4.4% of monthly gross national income (GNI) per
capita    in developing countries compared to only 1.2% in developed
countries.428

In the European Union, the current trend indicates that by 2030 only
64% of the adult population will attain at least basic digital skills (16 per-
centage points below the target of at least 80% of Europe’s adult popu-
lation). Additionally, only 13.3 million digital specialists will be employed
(6.7 million below the target of 20 million).429

In a phenomenon known as the digital divide,430 limited connectivity and
insufficient digital skills already mean that lower-income groups may
find it harder to access online learning opportunities.431 As digital plat-
forms evolve into digital realities, this divide may grow further, limiting
people’s access to both learning and work opportunities.

While the digital divide continues, the global augmented reality (AR) and
virtual reality (VR) markets are expected to reach $461 billion by 2030,
with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 42% between 2020 and
2030.432 The global earphone and headphone market is expected to
reach $35 billion by 2028, up from $22 billion in 2022 and growing at

a CAGR of 8%.433 VR and AR have the potential to add $4 billion to the
United Arab Emirates’ economy by 2030, i.e. 1% of GDP, compared

to a global increase of 1.8% of GDP by the same year.434


A 5GB fixed-broadband
connection costs

4.4%

of monthly gross
national income
(GNI) per capita
in developing
countries and
only

1.2%

in developed
countries

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              117 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Digital realities have three prerequisites: access to wearables and
devices, access to the internet and digital literacy. All of these are
expensive and non-trivial for developing and low-income countries, and
only one has been tackled through the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), under Goal 9: universal access to
information   and communications technology.435

A global task force with representatives from government,

non-governmental organisations, multidisciplinary research institutions
and technology companies could work to develop a multifaceted
framework to provide access to digital realities. Identifying the most
important links across various domains, the task force could develop

an integrated approach to be used at local, regional and global levels to
address the digital divide. While some may choose to opt out of digital
realities, the associated business and living implications will be
significant and being left behind may negatively impact societies.

BENEFITS          RISKS


No one is left behind when digital
realities become critical to life,
education and work, thanks

to a proactive, integrated and
multidisciplinary approach.

Evolution of the digital divide into a
digital reality divide, where a more
significant proportion of global
society does not have access to
digital realities and hence has
limited income and learning
opportunities. Limited adoption,
funding and support.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              118 


COLLABORATION ADVANCED 

CROSSING THE DIVIDE 

As of 2021,

of those living in developing countries

used the internet compared to

in developed countries

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              119 


NATURE
RESTORED

THE 50 OPPORTUNITIES 

NATURE RESTORED 

Minimise environmental risks, harness nature’s capacity
to restore itself or have a positive impact on crucial
environmental ecosystems and habitats, creating a more
stable, healthier planet for all.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              120 


OPPORTUNITY #22

What if we returned the planet to its natural state?

A WALK ON
THE REWILD
SIDE

Phasing out land use for food production accelerates
biodiversity and ecosystem restoration – hence rewilding –
while mitigating climate change risks.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Deforestation & Desertification
Restoration

Bioeconomy

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology
Chemicals & Petrochemicals

Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Infrastructure & Construction
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining
Real Estate
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              121 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


The top three countries
with the

LARGEST
NATURAL
LAND
CARBON
SINKS

As natural carbon sinks, emissions get trapped by nature through soil,
the oceans and vegetation. Natural storage of these emissions slows
climate change more effectively than many existing technologies.

The world’s forests absorb 16 gigatons of carbon dioxide per year, which
is more than three times the emissions of the United States alone.436
However, half of this carbon dioxide leaks back into the atmosphere
through deforestation and forest fires.437 Over a third of greenhouse gas
emissions can be mitigated by restoring earth’s ecosystems to their
natural states.438 As natural carbon sinks, emissions get trapped by na-
ture through soil, the oceans and vegetation more effectively than many
existing technologies. 439 The top three countries with the largest natural
land carbon sinks are Russia, Canada and the United States.440

About three billion people reside in areas highly vulnerable to climate
change.441 One hectare of fully regenerated forest can absorb 10 tonnes
of atmospheric carbon dioxide each year,442 while the average person
emits 4 tonnes per year.443 Every year, approximately 1.9 billion trees
are planted globally, or 60 per second.444 The amount of land taken up
by agriculture around the world is approximately 5 billion hectares,

or 38% of the globe’s land surface.445 A study done in the United King-
dom found that the cost of a tree is around $7 (excluding maintenance
for trees in cities), while the long-term economic benefits accumulated
over 50 years can be over $9,000 per tree.446 Using this calculation,
planting 6,000 trees — as part of climate action — in strategic locations
would generate benefits equal to $1 million per year over the course of
50 years.447

1  RUSSIA
2  CANADA
3 UNITED

STATES

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               122


THE OPPORTUNITY

The natural environment is earth’s own carbon sink. Rewilding large
swathes of the planet could boost natural carbon capture and mitigate
the impacts of climate change both locally and globally. Rewilding can
restore ecosystems and offset carbon dioxide emissions. The associ-
ated shift to alternative food production methods and nutritional mod-
els would decrease the direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions
(including of methane) related to agrifood production.448

Aside from assisting in carbon capture, rewilding prevents deforestation
and/or desertification. Rewilding can be done naturally but it can also be
accelerated through the use of planting schemes using diverse indige-
nous plants or plants genetically engineered for faster growth, carbon
dioxide absorption and resilience.449 Improved global

imaging and modelling of the interaction between climate change
and biodiversity can identify where investment in rewilding will have
the best outcomes.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Dual benefits to nature and

well-being through climate impact
mitigation, improved air

quality and better environments
for humans and animals. Reduced
economic costs of environmental
degradation and climate impacts.
Increased value from ecosystem
services. Reversal of the trend
towards habitat loss currently
being experienced by

some 80% of the world’s

land-based animal species.450

Increased food costs.
Displacement and loss of income
and culture for rural and farming
populations.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              123 


NATURE RESTORED 

A WALK ON THE REWILD SIDE 

The world’s forests absorb

16

GIGATONS

of carbon dioxide per year

However, half of this carbon dioxide
leaks back into the atmosphere through
deforestation and forest fires

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              124 


OPPORTUNITY #23

What if the next wave of car technology innovation
was in the wheels?

MULTI-
PURPOSE
WHEELS

A series of technological innovations in the wheels
redefine the future of car transport – from maglev

(magnetic levitation) solutions and drone-like technologies,
to the replacement of rubber in tyres and new ways of
conceptualising the function of wheels on a car.


MEGATREND

Materials Revolution

TRENDS 

Advanced Mobility
Air Pollution

New Materials

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance    & Reinsurance

Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Government Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              125 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Tyres and brake systems produce large amounts of microplastics as

by-products. Up to 100,000 tonnes of microplastics from tyres end up in
the ocean each year and a further 40,000 tonnes of microplastics come
from wear and tear on car brakes. With the average scrapped car tyre
weighing 9 kg, the amount of microplastics discharged into the ocean

is equivalent to 11 million tyres each year.451

Research suggests that nanoparticles generated from road traffic can
cause harm, and increased road traffic is a major cause of high particle
concentrations in polluted urban areas.452 Atmospheric particulate
matter   was recognised as the leading cause of 43,000 premature
deaths in Europe by the European Environment Agency in 2015.453

The amount of microplastics discharged
into the ocean is equivalent to

11

MILLION
TYRES

each year

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              126 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The transport landscape is changing. Imaginative new applications

of drone or maglev (magnetic levitation) technology could be the future.
For example, in one scenario, there could be hybrid vehicles that are
capable of running on electricity or alternative fuels but that switch over
to maglev mode when the infrastructure is available. This would prevent
the release of nanoparticles of dust, plastic and minerals into the atmos-
phere, as well as reducing noise levels. Such solutions would make the
roads cleaner, improving ecosystems and human health.

Replacing rubber tyres with new materials and new wheel and brake
technologies can minimise wear and tear on both vehicles and road sur-
faces. When used safely, lower-friction – or even frictionless solutions,
augmented by advanced machine intelligence and autonomous sys-
tems – can cut energy consumption, enabling electric vehicles to travel
further.

Wheels could become multifunctional. Rethinking the functionality
of wheels and tyres beyond simply transportation and carrying the
load of the car could lead to the development of wheels that can gen-
erate energy, filter nanoparticles and absorb emissions, among other
applications.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Cleaner and healthier cities.
Reduction in the energy needed
to  run vehicles. Lower
consumption of rubber
(petrochemicals). Further
innovation.

Reduced friction and therefore
reduced road adherence, requiring
vehicles to have ultra-advanced
safety systems to compensate

for slippery surfaces as well
as advanced road and safety

management systems. Complete
dependence of drivers on
automated safety systems even
under normal driving conditions.
Increased cybersecurity risks.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              127 


NATURE RESTORED 

MULTIPURPOSE WHEELS 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              128 


OPPORTUNITY #24

What if we had a responsive centennial plan
for the planet?

MAKE IT
100

Beyond the Sustainable Development Goals, Planetary
Development Goals are set up and agreed on a rolling
100-year time frame, creating a long-term global
cooperation framework for restoring and preserving
ecosystems and biodiversity.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

ESG & Beyond GDP
International Collaboration
Restoration

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Insurance & Reinsurance
Metals & Mining

Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              129 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Studies have concluded that humanity has far exceeded what the planet
can handle in terms of environmental pollutants and human-made
materials such as plastics.454 The Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs), adopted by the United Nations in 2015, include 17 goals, 169
targets and 231 unique indicators, 92 of which are related to the
environment.455 Looking at humanity’s progress against the
environmental   targets as a whole, 67% are following a positive trend
while    33% are showing little change or a negative trend.456 At the current
rate of investment, none of the SDGs will be achieved by 2030.457

Between 2001 and 2021, the earth lost just over 435 million hectares of
tree cover, which was a decrease of 11% since 2000.458 In parallel, there
has been a 68% drop in mammal, bird, fish, reptile and amphibian
populations since 1970.459 There has been a 14% loss of coral since 2009
due   to rising sea surface temperatures,460 and 150 species go extinct
every day – or 10% every decade.461

The impacts of climate inaction and non-cooperation can be measured
by the likely effects of global warming on economic growth. It is
estimated that, with a 1.5°C increase in the global temperate, condi-
tions  will be close to indistinguishable from what we see currently.

However, warming of 2°C would result in significantly lower projected
economic growth (up to a 2% annual decline) for many countries,
particularly low-income countries and countries around the equator. The
Middle East and North Africa are among the areas that would be most
negatively affected by warming of 2°C. For example, Saudi Arabia and
the  United Arab Emirates could expect a decline of approximately 1.8%
in their economic growth per capita annually.462

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              130 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Set to be achieved by 2030, the SDGs are not sufficiently long term to
enable natural ecosystems to recover or be restored.463 While ambitious
short-term goals are important,464 stable long-term goals and strategies
can provide the certainty and conditions needed for governments and
businesses to make changes and investments at the scale required.465

A global supranational protection and regulatory system supported by
advanced machine intelligence and modelling could set priorities for the
planet. It could also define the roles and contributions needed from each
country according to economic size and development needs and degree
of exposure to climate change and biodiversity loss. Collating highly de-
tailed environmental, meteorological and consumer market data would
allow automated systems to calculate impacts and suggest corrections
and adaptations in real time.

This system would have two primary functions. Firstly, it would survey
the planet, flagging actions or plans with negative long-terms impacts.
Secondly, it would empower governments, citizens and businesses to
contribute to the intergenerational health of their environment and the
earth’s natural systems.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Definition of long-term goals and
coordination of efforts so as to
achieve and surpass aims.

A means of organising multilateral
collaboration and investment.

A set of metrics against which to
measure progress.

Disconnection between a 100-
year outlook and shorter-term
government policies and interests
around climate change. Perception
of the goals as too expensive
compared to other more pressing
socio-economic challenges.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              131 


NATURE RESTORED 

A WALK ON THE REWILD SIDE 

There has been a 14% loss of coral
since 2009 due to rising sea surface
temperatures, and

150

SPECIES
GO
EXTINCT
EVERY

DAY– or 10% every decade

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              132 


OPPORTUNITY #25

What if the atmosphere was given the ability
to self-heal?

LET THAT
(CARBON)
SINK IN

Using the example of the ozone layer’s capacity to repair
itself, advances in nanotechnology are used to build a

self-repairing atmosphere that absorbs greenhouse gases,
restoring balance for the benefit of the earth’s climate and
allowing nature to regenerate.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Air Pollution
Nanotechnology
Restoration

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance  & Reinsurance
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining
Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              133 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The atmospheric concentrations of most greenhouse gases, including
carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, have increased over several
centuries but most significantly since the Industrial Revolution. Between
pre-industrial times (late 18th century) and 2021, carbon dioxide
concentrations rose from an annual average of 280 parts per million
(ppm)     to 414 ppm – a 48% increase.466 Moreover, the concentration

of methane has more than doubled since pre-industrial times, reaching
over 1,800 parts per billion (ppb) in 2021.467 Concentrations of nitrous
oxide reached 334 ppb in 2021.468

Greenhouse gases have been attributed to human activities causing
a substantial part of the warming of the earth’s climate.469 Carbon
dioxide has been identified as the biggest contributor to warming,

followed by methane and black carbon (soot).470 Although certain other
activities have caused cooling, the net result has been a 1.1°C increase in
temperature since 1880.471

Various carbon-capture methods and technologies have been proposed
to curb emissions.472 Other ways of reducing the amount of carbon in the
atmosphere include planting forests, expanding farms, using bio-energy
with carbon capture and storage and using ocean-based carbon
removal methods.473 The global carbon capture and storage market was
sized at $3.22 billion in 2021 and is expected to grow at a compound
annual growth rate of 5.8% from 2022 to 2030. The potential global
market size for carbon capture and storage is estimated to reach $4
trillion by 2050.474

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              134 


THE OPPORTUNITY

A combination of technologies can be used to seed the atmosphere with
nanocatalysts – nano-sized catalytic materials that detect greenhouse
gases and then either neutralise them or convert them into environmen-
tally safe and useful chemicals and other derivatives, such as hydrogen
gas.475

However, as gases that trap heat and cause other health and air quality
issues, greenhouse gases are a challenge on the path towards managing
climate change. As well as carbon dioxide, methane and black carbon,
there are fluorinated gases and nitrous oxide. All stay within the earth’s
atmosphere for various periods of time ranging from a few years to a few
thousand years.476

A global multilateral project could be developed to disperse nanocata-
lysts at strategic points around the globe, with trade winds and select-
ed weather fronts affecting the dispersal in such a way as to maximise
greenhouse gas neutralisation or conversion. The levels of ocean, soil
and atmospheric carbon and other gases could decline rapidly (even
as emissions continue), with levels falling below the most optimistic

targets set by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Ecosys-
tems would be reinvigorated and return to their natural carbon-absorb-
ing cycles, further slowing and eventually reversing the worst effects of
climate change.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Elimination of climate change and
global warming. Increased growth,
prosperity and well-being.

Risk of over-reliance on
geoengineering solutions rather
than   the prevention of emissions
and greenhouse gases.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              135 


NATURE RESTORED 

A WALK ON THE REWILD SIDE 

414

PPM

Between pre-industrial times

and 2021, carbon dioxide concentrations
rose from an annual average of

– a 48% increase

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              136 


OPPORTUNITY #26

What if we could recool the planet by saving
the ice caps?

ICE
UNCAPPED

A multi-pronged effort to restore the Arctic’s sea ice,
the Antarctic’s ice sheet and mountain glaciers around
the world leads to the cooling of the planet and oceans

and prevents the further release of trapped methane into
the atmosphere.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Air Pollution
Geoengineering
Ice Cap Shrinkage
New Materials

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Financial Services & Investment
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance  & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              137 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


By 2100, close to

150

MILLION
PEOPLE

would face a devastating
threat to their lives if the sea
levels rises by more than

1 METRE

Ice coverage in the polar regions and glaciers is a critical natural
climate regulator, melting of which could significantly contribute

to sea levels rising by more than a metre by 2100.477,478 According to
projections, close to 150 million people would face a devastating threat
to their lives.479 Residents of coastal areas, in particular, would face

the most severe impacts, while the global economy would lose

$50 trillion per year.480

Melting bodies of ice risk increasing methane emissions and
greater concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.481
Melting glaciers could also lead to the extinction of species, both

terrestrial and aquatic, who call glaciers their home and that fail to adapt
to swiftly changing conditions.482

In terms of the world’s cities, Guangzhou, Istanbul, Lagos, New York
and Tokyo would be the most likely to face severe effects. Populations
in tropical coastal regions would also be especially vulnerable,483, 484 for
example rising sea levels threaten the existence of small island states
such as Kiribati, the Maldives and the Solomon Islands. These states
exist in a fragile condition with heavy reliance on tourism and
international trade, underdeveloped communications and infrastructure
and    a lack of protection against natural disasters.485

Besides researching and experimenting with innovative approaches
to removing greenhouse gases and reducing emissions, the Centre
for Climate Repair at Cambridge in the United Kingdom also focuses
on refreezing as one of its core objectives. One approach currently
being explored by the centre and other groups is to reflect radiation

from the sun back into space through marine cloud brightening, which
makes clouds thicker with smaller droplets. Another is to enhance
freezing in winter by catalysing the formation of thicker ice sheets
around glaciers.486

The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region could be confronted
with severe environmental conditions, with some coastal cities
becoming inhabitable, notably Alexandria in Egypt.487 The MENA
region could be the first to run out of water, partly because of a

climate-change-induced rise of temperature that is estimated to exceed
4°C by 2050, or double the global average, and exceeding the threshold
for human adaptability.488 The warmer climate could result in higher
mortality, desertification and food insecurity.489

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              138 


THE OPPORTUNITY

An effort across many fronts could increase ice formation and reverse
the retreat of ice at the poles and in mountainous regions, thereby
cooling the planet and its oceans and preventing the further release of
trapped methane into the atmosphere. Localised geoengineering solu-
tions could include strategies such as deploying wind power to pump
colder seawater to the surface to speed freezing490 and surface modifi-
cation, which involves using materials on land to deflect heat

and light.491

Concerted efforts to combine various techniques could restore ice
coverage and thickness, allowing ice sheets and caps to regulate at-
mospheric and ocean temperatures and protect marine and terrestrial
biodiversity and limit the risk of sea levels rising.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Regulation of the climate and
reduction in the economic and
social costs of climate-related
disruption. Protection of biodiver-
sity  in marine ecosystems and of
livelihoods that depend on those
ecosystems. Preserving

the ice caps would also prevent
the release of methane as the
ice retreats.

Unforeseeable or unintended
consequences from geo-
engineering for local or even
global natural systems.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              139 


NATURE RESTORED 

ICE UNCAPPED 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              140 


OPPORTUNITY #27

What if we achieved zero emissions?

MISSION
ACCOMPLISHED

Technological breakthroughs and unprecedented global
collaboration bring greenhouse gas emissions to zerop,
restoring ecosystems and creating new ones.


p Close to zero.

MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Air Pollution

International Collaboration
Nanotechnology
Transforming Energy

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Service

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              141 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The cost of climate change continues to rise. Besides direct costs
related to climate change mitigation and adaptation, damage to habitats
and food chains as biodiversity and ecosystems break down492 gives rise
to additional economic burdens in the future.493

Eleven million hectares of tree cover were lost in the tropics in 2021.
The loss of tropical primary forests in 2021 led to 2.5 gigatons of
carbon dioxide emissions, which was equivalent to India’s annual fossil
fuel emissions.494 Since 1970, the world has lost 35% of its global
wetland area.495

The atmospheric concentrations of most greenhouse gases, including
carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, continue to increase beyond
optimal levels.496 As a leading cause of warming temperatures,497 with
an increase in temperature of 1.5°C, 4% of mammals would lose half their
habitat, whereas if temperatures rose by 2°C, this figure would rise to
8%. Similarly, at an increase of 1.5°C, 70 to 90% of coral reefs would
disappear, whereas at 2°C, the percentage would increase to 99%.498
The Mediterranean region is projected to be particularly affected by
climate change,499 and 80 to 90 million people in the Middle East and
North Africa (MENA) region are expected to suffer water stress in some
form by 2025.500

The loss of tropical primary
forests in 2021 led to

GIGATONS

of carbon dioxide emissions,

which was equivalent to India's
fossil fuel emissions

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              142 


THE OPPORTUNITY

A multi-pronged approach to capturing greenhouse gases from the
atmosphere on a global scale could drive multilateral investment and
cost-sharing. New fuels, materials and biochemicals could transform
energy generation, transmission and efficiency. Zero-waste
manufacturing,501 green manufacturing502 and advances in sustainable
manufacturing could reduce industrial emissions to zero. Drawing on
advanced machine intelligence and data-gathering capacity, global
geoengineering solutions in space could modulate how much heat can
enter    the atmosphere, and areas of emissions could be targeted with
nanocatalysts and other emissions-absorbing technologies. These
developments could be supported by solutions on the ground to restore
ice  sheets and caps and to rewild vast stretches of land, restoring the
planet’s natural capacity to deflect and absorb heat.

While biodiversity loss503 will be a negative consequence of climate
change,504 restored and new ecosystems that thrive on warmer
temperatures505 will also need to be protected as temperature increase
continues, ensuring that natural carbon sinks do not become
emitters.506 Equally, restored and new ecosystems will need to be
protected  in the event temperatures reverse.

BENEFITS          RISKS


New and restored ecosystems and
biodiversity. Better health

and well-being for humans
and animals.

Unintended consequences
of geoengineering solutions.
Breakdowns in collaboration.
Irreversible acceleration of
biodiversity loss.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              143 


NATURE RESTORED 

MISSION ACCOMPLISHED 

Since 1970, the world has lost

OF ITS GLOBAL
WETLAND AREA

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              144 


OPPORTUNITY #28

What if we could absorb greenhouse gas emissions
and particulate matter on demand anywhere

in the world?

‘MOBILE’
SUPER
SCRUBBERS

Enabled by materials science, automation and advanced
machine intelligence, emissions and particulate matter are
absorbed on an as-needed basis, anywhere in the world,
independent of technological capabilities available on hand.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Air Pollution
Nanotechnology
New Materials

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Chemicals & Petrochemicals

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


On average, those living in the
largest urban cities in the MENA
region breathe in 10 times the
level of pollutants in the air that
the World Health Organization
considers safe

10X

THE LEVEL OF POLLUTANTS
IN THE AIR THAT THE WHO
CONSIDERS SAFE

Air pollution, including both particulate matter (PM) and gas
emissions,507 is responsible for 19% of all cardiovascular deaths and 21%
of    all stroke deaths globally.508 It is estimated that the direct costs

to health due to climate change will have risen to between $2 billion and

$4 billion per year by 2030.509

Carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere for thousands of years.510 While
other greenhouse gases do not stay around for as long, they become
more potent and damaging than carbon dioxide over time.511 For
example, methane stays in the atmosphere for about 12 years,512
accounts for about 25% of all greenhouse gas emissions and is more
than 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide.513 Nitrous oxide stays
in the atmosphere for about 114 years; it makes up only a small share of
global greenhouse gas emissions but 1 kg of nitrous oxide is 300 times
more potent than 1 kg of carbon dioxide.514

PM is a term for small particles, measuring less than 10 μm (micro-
metres) across, that are found in the air and that have serious health
impacts on humans, animals and aquatic life.515 Particles measuring
less  than 2.5 μm, or aerosols, are a severe health hazard with long-term
exposure.516 While 90% of aerosols come from gases that are emitted
by   natural sources (such as volcanoes, sandstorms, plants and algae in
oceans) and that react with the atmosphere to create aerosols, 10% are
linked to industrial or transportation emissions.517 Around 99% of the
global population breathes air that exceeds the World Health
Organization’s (WHO) air quality limits,518 and, even though PM con-
centrations decreased on average by 30% to 40% during the COVID-19
lockdowns in 2020 compared to levels in the same period in the years
2015 to 2019, some areas saw increases or spikes for other reasons,
such as dust or secondary PM formation from other gas emissions.519

Even with national efforts to move away from hydrocarbon dependence
in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), climate change will have
significant implications including drought, rising sea levels and
extreme heat.520 On average, those living in the largest urban cities in

the MENA region breathe in 10 times the level of pollutants in the air that
the World Health Organization considers safe.521 Air pollution causes
around 270,000 deaths per year and costs the region $141 billion per
year,  or 2% of regional GDP.522


THE OPPORTUNITY

Clean air will one day be a critical need if climate change persists. Ma-
terials science, automation and advanced machine intelligence could
contribute to the invention of a mobile emissions and particulate mat-
ter  (PM) scrubber that could absorb carbon dioxide, other greenhouse
gases and PM anywhere in the world. If this idea were scaled, scrubbers
could be positioned at sea as offshore platforms to absorb emissions
and PM.

Mobile emissions and PM scrubbers could be standalone solutions pow-
ered by renewable sources of energy. Using advanced materials, they
could efficiently absorb greenhouse gases and PM and either store them
for later use or convert them into fuel523 and other non-harmful, possibly
useful chemicals.524

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved health with reduced air
pollution in both local and wider
regions. Reduced costs for lower-
income countries in mitigating the
effects of climate change.

Increased dependence on
technology. Difficulties using
advanced machine intelligence
to ensure that technologies
(especially mobile or offshore
ones)  are autonomous yet
sufficiently efficient. Misuse

of platforms.


NATURE RESTORED 

‘MOBILE’ SUPER SCRUBBERS 

Around

of the global population breathes air that exceeds the
World Health Organization’s air quality limits

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              148 


OPPORTUNITY #29

What if agriculture cut its dependence on water?

WATERLESS
FARMS

Advances in nanotechnology enable the delivery of
micronutrients and pesticides through spray coatings that
boost yields, safely protecting agriculture from pests and
reducing the need for excessive watering.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

AgriTech
Food—Water—Energy Nexus
Nanotechnology

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology
Chemicals & Petrochemicals

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Health & Healthcare

Utilities

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              149 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Agricultural outputs will need to grow by around 70% by 2050525

to meet the food needs of a rising population that today stands at nearly
8 billion526 and is expected to reach 9.7 billion by 2050.527 In parallel, the
demands of industry and commerce for water will increase from 25% to
40%, most of which is driven by agriculture due to its high level of water
use.528

While it is responsible for approximately two-thirds of global green-
house emissions,529 agriculture’s future will also be affected by climate
change due to temperature changes and shifts in precipitation and wind
patterns which will lead to variations in crop yields.530 For example,
maize  crop yields are projected to decline by 24%, while wheat could see
growth of some 17%.531

Still in its early days in relation to agriculture, nanotechnology has
already revolutionised drug delivery and improved treatment options
for infectious532 and non-infectious533 diseases, including HIV534 and
COVID-19 (the Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines both used lipid
nanoparticles to carry mRNA into cells535). The global market for nano-
technology more generally is expected to grow at a compound annual
growth rate (CAGR) of 36% between 2022 and 2030, from

$1.8 billion to almost $34 billion.536

Agricultural outputs will need
to grow by around

by 2050 to meet the food needs
of a rising population which is
expected to reach

by 2050

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              150 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Agriculture accounts for nearly three-quarters of global water use.537
Associated agrifood systems yield 11 billion tonnes of food a year,
employ   4 billion people and have an important role in poverty alleviation,
food security and energy efficiency.538 More than 3 billion people live in
agricultural areas with high water shortages.539

Applied through a spray, scalable nanotechnological solutions – includ-
ing nano pesticides and nanofertilisers – can be used on both crops

and soil to reduce the need for water.540 Nanoparticles are measured
in billionths of a metre and can have practical applications in climate

response, engineering, space, sciences and medicine.541, 542 Given their
small size, solubility and chemical composition,543

synthetic nanoparticles (including inorganic carbon nanotubes; iron,
silica, copper, gold and silver nanoparticles; and polymers and lipos-
omes) can act as organic carriers, enhancing the efficiency of agricultur-
al production. 544

Nanotechnology can significantly reduce the need for water in agricul-
ture. It can also reduce reliance on non-renewable sources

of energy, manage irrigation and enhance soil quality.545

BENEFITS          RISKS


Over

Reduced need for water in
agriculture. Avoidance of synthetic
pesticides. Reduced waste.

Health risks if nanotechnology
(more generally) and coatings
(more specifically) are not tested
prior to use, particularly on food.

35%

of the world's population
live in agricultural areas with
high water shortages

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              151 


NATURE RESTORED 

‘MOBILE’ SUPER SCRUBBERS 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              152 


SOCIETIES
EMPOWERED

THE 50 OPPORTUNITIES 

SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

Empower societies by offering solutions to humanity’s most
complex and universal needs, optimising systems they

rely on, safeguarding risks that could make societies more
fragile in the face of crises and extending individual and
collective potential for growth and development.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              153 


OPPORTUNITY #30

What if decentralised autonomous organisations
(DAOs) became a force for positive change?

DAOs FOR
SOCIAL
GOOD

Advanced connectivity and digital realities enable globally
minded individuals and communities around the world to
collaborate and exchange knowledge, data and services and
become partners in DAOs focused on specific global social
issues or challenges.


MEGATREND

Borderless World— Fluid Economies

TRENDS 

Advanced Connectivity
Community-based Solutions
Digital Communities

Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT)

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Insurance & Reinsurance
Media & Entertainment
Travel & Tourism
Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

There has been a rise in online communities over the past few years,546

– a trend that accelerated during the pandemic.547 People are finding a
sense of community and discovering new ways to express their identity
and their views within online groups,548 sometimes even anonymous-
ly.549

Over 12 trillion hours were spent online in 2021 with close to 5 billion
internet users (63% of the population) and 4.6 billion active social media
users (58% of the population).550 In 2022, Facebook had just under 3
billion users and YouTube trails behind at 2.5 billion users followed by 2
billion users on WhatsApp. 551 With greater demand for feeds that match
real life and with connection central to social media use across Gen Z,
Millennials, Gen X and Baby Boomer generations, a sense of community
is important.552

Online communities are also important for business. Around three-quar-
ters of internet users use social media to find more information on
brands,553 and community programmes that created or enhanced their
use  of online communities helped bring 74% more visibility to their pro-
grammes and 62% greater engagement.554

Online gaming is a multi-billion-dollar industry that is also based

on building communities. The global market for cloud gaming was val-
ued at $1.5 billion in 2021 and projected to grow at a compound annual
growth rate of 43% by 2028, when it is expected to reach $12.6 billion.555

In the Middle East, Egypt was the most active country on Facebook in
2021, with 44 million users, compared to 13 million users in Saudi Arabia
and 7.7 million in the United Arab Emirates.556 On Instagram, Saudi Ara-
bia had 15 million users, compared to 14 million in Egypt and 4.7 million
in the United Arab Emirates.557

Both a form of organisation and a system, a DAO is an emerging ap-
proach to decentralisation that is meant to provide greater transparen-
cy, agility and efficiency.558 Since the first known DAO formed in 2016,559
and despite risks in cybersecurity, governance and legal liability,560

the number of DAOs more than doubled throughout 2022; from 4,228
in early 2022561 to 10,904 in early 2023 and close to $11 billion in total
assets.562 The largest DAO in assets ($2.6 billion) was Uniswap and
the largest DAO in number of token holders (1.3 million) is Polkadot.563
However, only 293 DAOs have one or more tokenholders, 231 DAOs

have 10 or more token holders, and 167 DAOs have 1,000 or more token
holders with the remainder having none.564 PancakeSwap is the top DAO
by both the number of proposals (3,900) and the number of active votes
(659,300).565


THE OPPORTUNITY

Digital communities with international reach have the tools and access
to data and information to make a concerted effort to address global
challenges. With advanced computing power, organisational tasks and
governance structures can be automated and run by machine intelli-
gence, enabling the set-up of DAOs that can act as a new form of social
business, going beyond profits to undertake global challenges.

With these advantages, motivated groups of like-minded individuals will
be able to take and support action, drawing on their collective expertise,
skills and finances. Communities will be able to use the tools offered

by DAOs566 to assess their plans and targeted outcomes, improve their
effectiveness through community-led planning, and identify and engage
with decision-makers and actors of influence. These communities will
be able to expand their focus from legacy areas, such as the environ-
ment, to more hands-on issues such as access to education or health-
care, or even scientific research or technological innovation.

BENEFITS          RISKS


New thinking and innovation from
the mobilisation of pan-commu-
nity action. Influence of commu-
nities on behavioural change and
on raising awareness and funding.
Through technology, ability of
communities to deliver outcomes,
not  just ideas, and pioneer new
forms of income generation.

Misuse and exploitation of DAOs
to intentionally or unintentionally
cause harm. Global legal gaps
resulting in unclear liability and
accountability. Exposure of
community-based systems to
increased cybersecurity risks.


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

DAOs FOR SOCIAL GOOD 

The number of DAOs more than

doubled throughout 2022; from

in early 2022 to

in early 2023 and close to

BILLION

in total assets

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              157 


OPPORTUNITY #31

What if the people of the world voted for action on
global challenges?

WHOLE-
PLANET
VOTING

Global voting systems enable whole-planet decision-
making around global challenges, building a sense of
solidarity and empowerment among people living around
the world.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Advanced Connectivity
Artificial Intelligence
Community-based Solutions
Digital Communities

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Immersive Technologies
Insurance  & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Real Estate

Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

From poverty, water scarcity and health epidemics, to climate change
and food shortages, there are many social challenges that directly and
indirectly affect communities around the world and across borders.

COVID-19 has erased much of the progress made towards achieving
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example, four years

of progress on alleviating poverty was erased as 93 million people were
forced into extreme poverty in 2020.567 Rising inequality, climate change
and the impacts of COVID-19 also led to the worsening of food security,
with 1 in 10 people found to be suffering from hunger in the same year.

Additionally, about 22.7 million children missed basic vaccines and
147 million children missed more than half of their in-person classes
and instruction.568

While some countries are more vulnerable to the adverse impacts of cli-
mate change than others,569 climate change affects us all. Context-spe-
cific, the impact of climate change depends on the extent to which
countries already face water shortages, shifts in biome distribution, loss
of coral reefs, reduced crop production and livestock and higher rates

of disease, malnutrition and migration.570 It is estimated that by 2030,
climate change will have driven up to 135 million people into poverty571
particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia – the regions where
poorer populations are concentrated.572

Access to water is a global issue as well as only 3% of all the water on
earth is freshwater and, with growing populations, the need for fresh-
water has continued to increase and only 1% is accessible.573 Some two
billion people around the world do not have access to adequate water
supplies and as much as two-thirds of the world’s population experience
water scarcity at least one month of the year.574 Enhancing access to
water for drinking and agriculture will require significant investments

in infrastructure and technology even in countries with adequate water
supplies.575 For example, desalination, the process of removing salt and
other particles from seawater, is an option used for increasing supplies
of freshwater. New technologies – such as nano-membranes, which
desalinate water more quickly – could further improve capacity and tap
into new sources of freshwater.576


THE OPPORTUNITY

The share of individuals using the internet increased – from 54% in 2019
to 63.5% in 2021.577 The number of social media users grew from 4.2
billion in January 2021 to 4.6 billion in January 2022, with a 10% year-
on-year growth.578 In a connected world, choices made about key global
challenges in one region can have profound effects on other regions.

Technology could enable real-time access to AI-powered analysis and
modelling, allowing people to understand how their choices will affect
others.

Votes could be held on global challenges requiring a response or strat-
egy that went beyond the capacity or power of any one nation or region.
Voters could be presented with a full view of the impacts of their choices
for their country, for the world and for their personal circumstances.

Depending on the topic, the options would not necessarily be binary
and could consist of sets of possible responses. The results could guide
national and regional action plans and investment.

A system of voting on global challenges could build a sense of solidar-
ity and empowerment among people living around the world. It could
reduce the influence of party politics and vested interest groups, as
everyone would have equal access to unbiased information and clearly
explained implications.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Greater global collaboration
and solidarity around global

challenges. Reducing duplicated
efforts and enabling more effective
funding. Smaller countries have

a stronger voice as they feel
empowered from being part of
a bigger group of countries.

Greater influence for countries
with larger populations if the
system used the ‘one person,
one vote’ principle. Social or
geopolitical tensions stemming
from close-run votes. Low voter
turnout. Misuse of the voting
platform to shift public opinion.


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

WHOLE-PLANET VOTING 

4

of progress on alleviating poverty

was erased as

MILLION

were forced into extreme poverty
in 2020 due to COVID-19

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              161 


OPPORTUNITY #32

What if paid social national service was standard?

SERVICE
AS A
STANDARD

Paid social national service is legally available for everyone,
resulting in changed views of working life, community,
social   and environmental engagement, allowing people to
contribute to their community and society before embarking
on   a new career or transition to the next phase of their life.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Community Enagagement & Volunteerism
Future of Purpose & Work

Longevity & Well-being

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Education

Health & Healthcare
Travel & Tourism


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Volunteerism is a way of expressing a sense of social responsibility. The
benefits of volunteering have been shown to be extensive and studies
have shown that individuals experience improved mental and social
health and well-being, and a sense of satisfaction.579, 580 Volunteering
can also counteract caregiver stress581 and be central to community
identity.582 Corporate volunteers may experience better working rela-
tionships.583

The International Labour Organization defines volunteer work as ‘any
unpaid, non-compulsory activity to produce goods or provide servic-
es for others’.584 It has been estimated based on surveys conducted in
2019–21 that globally almost 15% of the population aged 15 or over (862

million people) engage in volunteer activity each month. However, there
are significant differences between the regions: while Asia and Africa are
above the global average (17%), the Arab states are below it (9%). Most
volunteer work is done informally.585

Motivations for volunteering differ, however. While studies have looked
at demographic factors behind increased volunteering, more research
is needed into other factors.586 In older adults, the better the individual’s
physical health and psychosocial well-being, the more likely they are to
volunteer.587 Motivations for environmental volunteering similarly differ
ranging from the desire to gain new skills and knowledge to a wish to
improve the environment and forming connections around a common
purpose.588

Some countries already offer a form of social service. For example, in
Sweden, the Right to Leave to Conduct a Business Operation Act offers
full-time employees at least six months of unpaid sabbatical leave to
start their own business. Additionally, they can take time off to study or
care for a family member.589

France has a scheme that falls somewhere between mandatory and
voluntary. The government announced in 2019 that, at age 16, everyone
must commit a month to learning service skills, such as first aid, and
applying them in real-world settings. After this, teenagers are encour-
aged to volunteer for three months to a year in an area such as tutoring
or aiding environmental causes.590


THE OPPORTUNITY

Programmes aligning personality types and skills to different areas of
social service could give people a greater sense of purpose and contrib-
ute to a feeling of community spirit and solidarity. As lifespans lengthen
and skills and work environments evolve, people can increasingly bene-
fit from paid sabbaticals or obligatory periods of paid social national ser-
vice. Such initiatives could allow people to step back and think – while
contributing to their community and society – before embarking on a
new  career or the next phase of their life.

There is an abundance of social challenges to resolve around the world,
from poverty and climate change to poor mental health and how best to
care for the sick. Planned, systematic absences of a year or more could
offer a means to smooth labour market fluctuations or to offset structur-
al labour market changes. Those who are unemployed could

find a productive way to generate some short-term income while
also exploring new avenues for potential employment and stable
income generation.

Linking social duty to paid schemes could make the experience more
meaningful for individuals without a personal plan and those who are
facing unemployment, as volunteering has been found to buffer the neg-
ative mental effects of unemployment, the pressures of family care and
long-term illness.591

BENEFITS          RISKS


Greater self-optimisation
and fulfilment for individuals,
contributing to improved
well-being. Opportunities for

individuals to grow their skills
in a new area. Greater cognitive
diversity within the workplace
when employees return having
gained new experience.

Opportunities for the unemployed
to explore new work possibilities,
providing hope for a better future.

Low uptake from the public
or private sector or among
employees or unemployed
people. Poor-quality social

service opportunities, meaning
that they do not provide
meaningful experiences or impact.
Compassion fatigue among
participants.


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

SERVICE AS A STANDARD 

ARAB STATES

are below the global
average


Globally almost

of the population engage
in volunteer activity

ASIA AND AFRICA

are above the global
average

17%

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              165 


OPPORTUNITY #33

What if social policies were designed and
monitored at a community level and in real time?

A POLICY’S
TRUE
MEASURE

Advanced machine intelligence helps policy-makers design
and implement effective social programmes and policies at
a community level that are adjusted in real time, taking into
account people’s diverse characteristics and backgrounds
while protecting the privacy of all.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Community-based Solutions

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare
Infrastructure & Construction
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              166 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

While measures of economic growth and stability are best managed by
national governments, many elements of well-being and prosperity are
rooted in communities and local areas. 592

Some locations around the world are already measuring well-being at
a community level including some cities in the United States and Can-
ada.593 The UK Research and Innovation funds partnerships with local
agencies and communities that aim to explore novel policy approaches

which can provide sustainable, inclusive growth in a way that is tailored
to a local community.594

In 2019, Pew Research Center found that a median of 69% of people
surveyed across 27 countries said that their country had become more
diverse in the past two decades.595 Yet, between potential labour gains
and capital investments, racial and ethnic inequalities have cost the US
economy some $51 trillion in lost productivity since 1990.596

The gender gap has been closed by 68.1% globally (63.4% in the Mid-
dle East and North Africa (MENA)), but women will have to wait several
more generations to reach gender parity, estimated to be 132 years.597
Despite progress, the MENA region loses $575 billion each year from
legal and social barriers, such as gender stereotypes, lack of flexible
working policies, access to financial services, discrimination and har-
assment laws that prevent women from accessing jobs.598

The largest minority group globally is people living with a disability, who
together number 1.3 billion (17% of the global population).599 Besides the
moral duty for disability inclusion, the cost of exclusion of people with
disabilities represents up to 7% of GDP in some countries.600

Women have to wait

YEARS

to reach gender parity

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              167 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The theory of intersectionality has been conceptualised and applied
in research relating to mental health,601 social work,602 education and

health.603 Its application in machine learning could allow advanced ma-
chine intelligence to help design effective social policies at a community
level as an approach to improving prosperity and well-being.604 Taking
into account diverse – both in character and cultures – communities,605
enhances analysts’ understanding of communities and offers deeper
explanations for the factors that influence change and people’s sense of
well-being.

Through the use of monitoring in real time at a community level, ad-
vanced machine intelligence could be used to identify potential areas of
improvement. This would enable local communities to compare solu-
tions   and share experiences with each other. They could also test their
plans in advanced simulations that reflected the structure, size, needs
and culture of their locality while ensuring that individuals were equally
experiencing improvements in prosperity and well-being.

At the national level, governments set benchmarks and limits for com-
munities and allocate budgets for planned policies. Community mon-
itoring could allow for real-time progress reports to be generated and
for inefficiencies and potential risks to be flagged so that they can be
corrected or mitigated through the design of bespoke programmes and
initiatives. The integration of local concerns and needs directly into the
policy-making process could enhance feelings of empowerment and
engagement among citizens.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Avoids the problems of ‘one-
size-fits-all’ policymaking at one
end  and complex individual-level

policies at the other. More effective
and efficient use of funds through
the use of real-time monitoring
and progress reports.

Inaccuracies in aligning
community and individual-level
indicators. Increased tensions
if    a community’s level

of prosperity and well-being
does not match that of some
of its individuals, particularly
in diverse communities.


The largest minority group globally
is people living with a disability

17%


OPPORTUNITY #34

What if hybrid intelligence reduced groupthink?

CALLING
OUT HERD
MENTALITY

Advanced machine intelligence and new conceptual models
of social psychology inform decision-making, reducing the
impact of groupthink.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
HumanXMachine

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Insurance & Reinsurance
Media & Entertainment
Real Estate

Travel & Tourism


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Groupthink arises when members of a cohesive group do not consider
alternative perspectives because they are motivated to reach a consen-
sus.   It often leads to suboptimal or undesirable decision-making.606 The
causes of groupthink are varied and include lack of cognitive diversity,
lack of impartial leadership and stress along with time constraints and
lack of outside perspectives. The negative impacts of groupthink in-
clude poor decision-making, self-censorship, inefficient problem-solv-
ing, unawareness of negative outcomes and an inability to see other
solutions.607 It can also be a barrier to innovation and fresh thinking.

AI is already transforming decision-making in finance, healthcare, crimi-
nal justice and transportation.608 In finance, for instance, Artificial Intelli-
gence (AI) is being used to optimise processes such as credit decisions,
quantitative trading and risk management models.609 There has been a
swift   rise in AI’s efficiency and accuracy over recent years. Credit card
fraud increased by 44% in 2019–20; however, automation with AI allows
credit card companies to make billions of credit and fraud risk decisions
in real time, protecting customers and preventing fraud.610

While the negative consequences of groupthink are not often this dra-
matic, some of the most famous failures partially attributed to group-
think include the financial downfall of Swissair,611 the collapse of Lehman
Brothers,612 the Challenger disaster613 and the Enron scandal,

all of which began at corporate board level.


THE OPPORTUNITY

Embedding psychosocial theories of groupthink into AI could enable
observation of how and what decisions are made. Integrating various
inputs, such as brain-computer interfaces (BCI) and Internet-of-Things
(IoT)-enabled wearables, meeting rooms and Natural Language Pro-
cessing (NLP) and other measures, could allow advanced machine in-
telligence to highlight the risks of groupthink and evaluate interventions
that mitigate it.

A blend of human and machine intelligence could bring the diversity of
analysis and perspectives needed to combat groupthink, particularly
when there is a need to distinguish between groupthink and other in-
group dynamics.614

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved decision-making that
factors in a greater diversity of
thinking and perspectives.

Dilution of optimal choices due to
in-group dynamics mistaken for
groupthink.


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

CALLING OUT HERD MENTALITY 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              173 


OPPORTUNITY #35

What if we had a convention of rights for digital
realities?

A DIGITAL
REALITIES
CONVENTION
OF RIGHTS

An international convention of digital human rights for life
in a virtual world providing levels of protection for people as
they live, work and socialise in digital realities.


MEGATREND

Digital Realities

TRENDS 

International Collaboration

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Immersive Technologies
Media & Entertainment


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The number of people online continues to grow. Today, two-thirds of the
global population – just over 5 billion people – have access to the inter-
net615 and there were 4.6 billion social media users worldwide in 2021616
compared to 3.5 billion in 2019.617

Video games are witnessing similar growth, with global revenues
rising 32% between 2019 and 2021. Revenues are expected to rise
at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8.4% through 2026,
creating a $321 billion industry.618

In terms of geographies, China and the United States accounted for
around half of the global gaming and esports revenues in 2021. However,
Turkey – followed by Pakistan (21.9% CAGR) and India (18.3% CAGR)

– is likely to be the fastest-growing video games market between 2021
and 2026 with a 24% CAGR.619

In addition, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (AR) are both pav-
ing the way towards digital realities. The AR and VR market was valued
at $15 billion in 2020 and is projected to reach $454 billion by 2030 with
a CAGR of 40.7%.620 VR and AR have the potential to add

$4 billion to the United Arab Emirates’ economy by 2030.621

It is no surprise that increasing engagement online and advancing

AR and VR technologies are leading to increasing cybersecurity risks.622
With hazards ranging from privacy and data breaches to ransomware,
around one in three people fell victim to cybercrime in 2021, and

many more will have encountered content that is legal but potentially
harmful or unreliable.623 Data breaches will cost over $5 trillion
annually  by 2024.624

While the Council of Europe and the United Nations respectively pub-
lished a ‘Guide to Human Rights for Internet Users’625 and a ‘Charter
of Human Rights and Principles for the Internet’626 in 2014, these doc-
uments have not evolved to include the risks that individuals will face
in more immersive digital realities, which will be made more complex
through advanced machine intelligence. Moreover, while the Council

of Europe’s guide is binding for all 47 of the council’s members, the Unit-
ed Nations’ charter is not legally binding.


THE OPPORTUNITY

Life online brings new possibilities and challenges. Most of modern in-
dividuals’ financial, work and social activities are already dependent on
digital platforms and the rules and regulations that govern them.

But, to date, beyond the protection of data, many of those rules have
simply been carried over from the physical world and have not been
adapted to new forms of community, behaviours or social and economic
norms. A convention of human digital rights could be designed for future
digital realities.

An internationally agreed convention of human digital rights could
specify what is acceptable behaviour and provide levels of protection for
people as they live, work and socialise in digital realities. It could pre-
serve people’s right to determine and protect their own digital identity
and dignity and could also offer a base that different platforms and
communities could use to develop frameworks to protect people’s rights
in  virtual worlds. Digital reality spaces and communities adhering to

the convention would be more transparent, trusted and attractive, and
would be able to grow their user populations and give them a commer-
cial advantage.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Greater protection and a common
international basis for evaluating
digital spaces.

Inflexibility of the convention,
making it a source of division
among communities and digital
realities. Slow evolution of legal
systems, meaning they fall out of
sync with the convention, making
enforcement challenging.


2/3

5 BILLION

have access to the internet


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

A DIGITAL REALITIES CONVENTION OF RIGHTS

Data breaches will cost over

$5

annually by 2024

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               177


OPPORTUNITY #36

What if we secured our digital identities using
quantum encryption?

QUANTUM
AVATAR

Quantum encryption protects the integrity of avatars in
digital realities, creating an environment of trust that uplifts
creativity, commerce and security.


MEGATREND

Technological Vulnerabilities

TRENDS 

Cybersecurity
Digital Art & Design
Metaverse

Virtual Reality

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Cyber & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Immersive Technologies

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              178 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

As the digital reality universe grows, so does the use of avatars

to navigate them. Every interaction an avatar has in a virtual environ-
ment leaves a trail of data points. Estimates suggest that

a 20-minute virtual reality session with a headset can generate

up to 2 million data points about an individual’s body language, which
can reveal both mental and physical health conditions.627 Linking such
data to financial, communication and contact data gathered in digital re-
alities mean avatars could become prime targets for cyberattacks. The
more active avatars are, the more they are at risk of data fraud

and misrepresentation and even full avatar identity theft (known
as cybersquatting).628

Today, avatars are second nature in gaming, which today boasts nearly
3 billion players worldwide.629 Video games revenues rose 32%
between 2019 and 2021 and are estimated to rise at a compound annual
growth rate (CAGR) of just over 8% through to 2026, creating

a $321 billion industry.630

In addition, avatars are core to augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality
(VR). The AR and VR market was valued at $15 billion in 2020 and is
projected to reach $454 billion by 2030 with a CAGR of 40.7%.631 AR
and   VR have the potential to add $4 billion to the United Arab Emirates’
economy by 2030.632

There are nearly

3

BILLION

gamers worldwide

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              179 


THE OPPORTUNITY

An avatar is a virtual self-representation.633 Protecting it from harm
and from harming others will be key in the future, particularly in digital
realities, where the lack of the possibility of physical harm may reduce
people’s perceptions of the importance of harms suffered and caused.
Additionally, in such spaces, avatars can themselves be separate legal
personalities who can be controlled by Artificial Intelligence (AI) as op-
posed  to a human.634

Quantum encryption could allow people to protect their avatars (i.e.
their identity and data) from malicious attacks and accidental breaches.
Ensuring complete avatar security would create a high-trust environ-
ment that enabled the growth and success of new social and business
models in digital reality spaces. Agreements, purchases

and expressions of opinion or creativity could each be verified, reducing
costs and the risk of misrepresentation or falsification.

Together with a legal review – and possibly new laws and regulations
relating to avatars covering fraud, identity theft, defamation and other
crimes – quantum-secured avatars could provide greater confidence
to individuals and society in digital realities.635

BENEFITS          RISKS


Safer, lower-cost transactions
and improved social interactions,
contributing to the growth and
stability  of digital realities.

Unnoticed quantum encryption
breaches, enabling avatar doubles
to infiltrate sensitive situations for
criminal or espionage purposes.

Slow evolution of legal systems,
meaning they fall out of sync
with the quantum approach

to encryption, making enforce-
ment challenging.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              180 


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

QUANTUM AVATAR 

Estimates suggest that

a 20-minute virtual reality session

with a headset can generate up to

2

data points about an individual’s body language

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              181 


OPPORTUNITY #37

What if we designed a liveability index for
digital realities?

ONLINE
KERB
APPEAL

As more businesses, sources of entertainment and social
interactions move to immersive, virtual environments,
establishing a comparable measure for liveability in digital
realities quantifies the challenges faced by individuals and
their avatars.


MEGATREND

Digital Realities

TRENDS 

Immersive Technologies & Wearables
Virtual Reality

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Immersive Technologies
Insurance  & Reinsurance

Media & Entertainment

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              182 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

There are at least 128 social media sites in the world today.636 Almost
60% (4.7 billion) of the global population used social media and, as of
October 2022, Facebook had 2.9 billion, YouTube 2.5 billion and Insta-
gram 1.3 billion users registered.637

While the boundaries of the metaverse continue to be explored, it
combines – among other aspects – augmented reality (AR) and virtual
reality (VR) platforms,638 blockchain, cryptocurrencies, advertising and
gaming.639 The global metaverse market was valued at just under

$23 billion in 2021640 and could reach $5 trillion by 2030.641

With the global mobile games market picking up pace, there were

4.6 billion downloads from the App Store and Google Play in June 2022

– an increase of 2.2% since June 2021.642 As of May 2022, the traditional
gaming platforms, such as PlayStation and Nintendo Switch,

hosted a total of 93,880 video games.643 Adding in the mobile app
stores, including the App Store and Google Play, there were 831,523
games globally.644

Led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, the Middle East and
North African gaming market is projected to increase by 19% in the
period 2019 to 2025 to more than $5 billion.645

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              183 


THE OPPORTUNITY

While complex, developing a digital reality liveability index could enable
platform operators and policy-makers to build and improve services and
functions that contribute to the success of digital realities and enable
more prosperity and well-being. The index could help companies to
better target their investments and services to attract new customers
and retain existing ones. It could also help individuals to choose where
to spend their time, decide where to move their assets or understand
how to find digital realities offering them better potential to develop a
business idea or income stream. A liveability index ranking would make
the differences between digital realities more transparent, contributing
to trust and driving innovation and improvement.

As the digital economy, and associated digital goods and services,
grows with revenue streams linked to virtual platforms, it is important
to  be able to measure, track and compare where and how value is being
created and the associated well-being and economic health of commu-
nities inhabiting virtual spaces.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved trust and safety for
both companies and individuals
operating and living in digital
realities, thanks to an increase
in  the availability of information.

Reduced attractiveness of poorly
governed and unsafe digital
realities among investors.

Possibility of platforms gaming the
system (as is the case for all rank-
ings). Disproportionate invest-
ment in higher-ranked platforms at
the cost of smaller, nascent ones.
Lack of clear boundaries around
what a digital reality is, resulting in
confusion and loss of credibility for
the index.

The global metaverse market could reach

$5

TRILLION

by 2030

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              184 


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

ONLINE KERB APPEAL 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              185 


OPPORTUNITY #38

What if we tokenised our most sensitive data?

NOT A
TOKEN
GESTURE

Individuals tokenise sensitive personal data to protect its
integrity and retain control over who has access – with a
possible commercial upside.


MEGATREND

Technological Vulnerabilities

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
Data Protection & Privacy
Tokenisation

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Communication Technologies & Systems
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Insurance & Reinsurance

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              186 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

With annual increases of 15% between 2022 and 2025, the costs associ-
ated with cybercrime are expected to reach $10.5 trillion worldwide by
2025 – a 300% increase from 2015 levels. 646 By 2030,

it is estimated that the economic benefits associated with a secure digi-
tal identity will range between 3% and 13% of GDP.647

While 137 out of 194 countries globally (almost 71%) have put in place
legislation to protect privacy and personal data, the levels of adoption
in  Africa and Asia dip to 61% and 57%, respectively.648 At the same time,
the average cost of a data breach in 2022 was $4.35 million and, having
gone up 42% since 2020, a data breach in healthcare had an average
cost of $10 million.649 Stolen or compromised credentials were the most

common data breach and, at 327 days, the longest to identify. 650 Almost
half of these breaches occurred in the cloud, and organisations with a
hybrid cloud model had lower average data breach costs ($3.80 million)
compared to organisations with a public ($5 million) or private

($4.2 million) cloud model.651

Besides the economic cost, cybercrime affects people too. A survey
found that, out of those who had been victims of fraud, 70% felt anx-
ious, stressed, displeased or frustrated when they were warned about
potential fraud.652 It has been estimated that the cost to a fraud victim’s
well-being can be valued at around $3,000 or higher, compared to a
financial cost of around $700.653

The potential target market size when it comes to data protection is up
to $100 billion and only 30% to 35% of that market is currently served.654

of countries globally have put in place legislation
to protect privacy and personal data

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               187


THE OPPORTUNITY

Tokenisation transforms financial markets655 and offers individuals the
possibility of sharing their sensitive data by converting the data into
charitable value – for the greater good – or monetary benefit, if sought.

In this way, the data can be put to use and its original sensitive elements
which make the data traceable to an individual or family, for example
that used in training predictive models for novel cancer treatments –
are stored outside the database. Tokenisation offers advantages over
encryption as tokenised data cannot be decoded and tokenisation is
irreversible. When individuals are confident that sensitive data cannot

be traced back to them or accidentally revealed, they will be more willing
to share and, in doing so, contribute to medical and scientific innovation
and enhance community-based policymaking .

BENEFITS          RISKS


More transparent data-sharing
systems will engender more
trust, particularly in the sharing
of personally sensitive areas such
as health and education. More
distributed gains across business
and society by delivering greater
value to individuals that are
generating and sharing data.

Sophisticated mass breach of
tokens. Dependency on network
stability and associated technol-
ogies. Widening economic gaps
brought about by margins in the
value of personal tokens.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              188 


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

NOT A TOKEN GESTURE 

The costs associated with cybercrime

are expected to reach

worldwide by 2025 – a

increase from 2015 levels

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              189 


OPPORTUNITY #39

What if this is the end of secondary education
as we know it?

SECONDARY
NO MORE

Dissolve grade levels and equip youth in secondary
education with the confidence, resilience and strong mental
health to explore potential futures and make informed
decisions through entirely personalised, adaptive and
cognitively diverse environments.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Future of Purpose & Work
HumanXMachine

Mental Health
NeuroscienceTransforming Education

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Health & Healthcare
Immersive Technologies


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


By 2030, automation will
put around

20%

to 25%

of jobs at risk in Asian and
Nordic countries and around

40%

in some Eastern European
countries.

Adolescence is a unique time in people’s lives. Particularly during this
phase of intense emotional, physical and social change and challeng-
es, mental health issues can reduce adolescents’ well-being, with the
effects potentially lasting a lifetime.656 These issues can be hard to
overcome and can put individuals’ future prosperity and well-being at
risk, so protecting adolescents and safeguarding their mental health is
important. In figures that are likely to be underreported, one in seven
adolescents (aged 10 to 19 years) could be experiencing mental health
issues.657 Nearly 5% of individuals aged between 15 and 19 have an anx-
iety disorder that affects them on a daily basis, and many of them deal
with their disorder through risk-taking behaviours, which may lead to
addiction or suicide.658

While access to education has improved globally since 2000, it still pre-
sents challenges. Half of the 244 million children who are out of school
are aged between 15 and 17, with sub-Saharan Africa having

the highest out-of-school rates (48%).659

Even when there is access to education, the question of improving
educational outcomes and catering to different abilities and learning
preferences has always been of focus.660 Enabled by technology as
per teachers’ needs661 and sought learning outcomes,662 personalised

learning provides students with foundational knowledge, opportunities
for real-world application, improved capabilities and clarity for plans and
skills for the future.663

AI, robotics and automation are expected to contribute up to $15 trillion
to global GDP by 2030, but it is also anticipated that automation will
put around 20% to 25% of jobs at risk in Asian and Nordic countries and
around 40% in some Eastern European countries.664

In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), unemployment is a par-
ticular concern for young people aged 18 to 24.665 In 2021, there was 14%
unemployment in the MENA region not including the countries of the
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). Waged and salaried workers made up
66% of the workforce while 34% were self-employed. Including the GCC,
the MENA region witnessed a 5% unemployment rate in 2021. Waged
and salaried workers made up 95% of the workforce and 5% were

self-employed.666


THE OPPORTUNITY

With primary school education focused on the basics of reading, writing,
mathematics, communications and the critical thinking skills needed to
acquire knowledge, secondary school becomes entirely personalised.

Focused on the application of acquired cognitive skills, access to deeper
knowledge and analysis, and on the discovery and development of talent
and interests within a structured and healthy environment focused

on positive social–emotional health, secondary schooling is adaptive
in breadth, depth and speed to the aspirations and potential in young
people.

Authoritative, supportive and structured school environments would de-
liver better educational outcomes, particularly in terms of adolescents’
well-being and their social and emotional health. Student—student and
student–teacher relationships would be built on respect, supporting
and preparing students both academically and in terms of emotional
resilience.667

Thanks to advances in both psychological and neurological sciences
and their application, grade levels are abolished and intellectual diversi-
ty could become a priority, improving individual engagement, collective
cooperation and better knowledge capture, learning, concentration and
recall.668

No longer labelled as ‘just students’, post-14s would make informed
decisions and explore potential future careers. Through ongoing oppor-
tunities for practical experience and learning, they would be empowered
to prepare for adulthood in the most effective way, paving

a path towards their prosperity and well-being in the future.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Well-adjusted adolescents with
better life outcomes in terms of
employment, income, social skills
and mental health.

Inability of schools and teachers to
support adolescents and structure
school life and assessments in line
with the re-engineered pedagogy.
New challenges for higher edu-
cational institutions responding

to new ways of assessment and
student preparation for higher
education.


SOCIETIES EMPOWERED 

SECONDARY NO MORE 

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              193 


THE 50 OPPORTUNITIES 

TRANSFORMATIONAL 

TRANSFORMATIONAL

The power to radically change ways of life by replacing the
models that countries, communities and individuals live
by. These new models enable individuals and communities
to innovate and improve and aid the transformation of
humanity to new digital and non-digital realities.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              194 


OPPORTUNITY #40

What if solar farms were moved to space?

INFINITE
‘SOLAR’
ENERGY

Floating solar panel farms are installed in space and are
operated by advanced machine intelligence to ensure
optimal positioning, allowing unlimited renewable energy
to be generated and transmitted to earth.


MEGATREND

Energy Boundaries

TRENDS 

Future of Space
Transforming Energy

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Materials & Biotechnology
Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation

Communication Technologies & Systems
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Insurance  & Reinsurance

Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Utilities

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              195 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Every hour, more solar energy reaches earth than the total annual ener-
gy used by global populations,669 around 160,000 TWh of energy.670 Yet,
about 770 million people live without access to electricity, most of them
residing in Africa or Asia.671 The world’s population is expected to reach

9.7 billion by 2050, and energy consumption is anticipated to increase
by at least 50% over the same period.672

In 1975 solar panels started out at the price of $105 (2015 price equiva-
lent) per Watt, but by 2013 they had fallen to less than a dollar.673 China’s
heavy investment in solar photovoltaics was one of the key drivers of this
reduction, and by the end of 2021 China’s share across all manufacturing
stages for solar panels exceeded 80%674 and the value of China’s solar
photovoltaic related exports was over $30 billion.675

Of more benefit, solar energy is also cost-effective as consumers

in the United States, for example, can save up to 50% of electricity costs
in some countries compared to the traditional grid.676 Solar energy

also enables the transition to renewable energy thereby reducing carbon
dioxide emissions from the energy sector. In 2021, carbon dioxide emis-
sions from energy combustion and industrial processes were responsi-
ble for 89% of the energy sector’s greenhouse gas emissions worldwide.
Energy-related carbon dioxide emissions grew by 6% in 2021.677

In Egypt, three-quarters of carbon dioxide emissions are derived
from the energy sector, with power plants accounting for 45%

of these emissions.678

About

770

MILLION
PEOPLE

live without access to electricity,

most of them residing in Africa or Asia

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              196 


THE OPPORTUNITY

Far greater quantities of solar energy can be generated and transmitted
from space than on earth, and with no downtime,679 space-based solar
panels have the capacity to generate 40 times more energy than solar
panels on earth.680 Emissions-free, solar space farms could accelerate
efforts to reduce the production of greenhouse gases and become the
cleanest alternative to increasing energy needs.

Many countries are looking to tap into the potential of space-based
power stations. For example, the UK government is considering an in-
vestment of nearly $20 billionq to build a solar power station in space.681
In Europe, installing a continent-wide space-based solar power pro-
gramme could bring in benefits worth over $190 billion.r,682

With reusable space rockets, the cost of launching solar panels into
space could continue to decrease,683 and as scientists continue to
uncover ways that solar energy can be stored for long periods,684 the
capture and storage of solar energy could be optimised through materi-
als science, robotics and advanced machine intelligence.

Energy could be beamed to earth via technologies such as microwave
laser satellites or laser solar satellites,685 and uninterrupted flows of
solar energy could fulfil the increasing industrial and domestic demand
around the world, supporting economic growth and development and
facilitating access to new technology and systems that improve health,
education and well-being.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Constant flow of clean energy
beamed around the world.

Ability to meet energy demands
and provide off-grid access in
remote areas.

Difficulty of managing extra-
terrestrial energy facilities and
protecting them from accidental
(e.g. from asteroids or space
debris) or deliberate damage
causing power outages on earth.

q  Based on GBP/USD exchange rates as at 20 January 2023.
r  Based on EU/USD exchange rates as at 20 January 2023.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               197


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

INFINITE ‘SOLAR’ ENERGY

Energy consumption is anticipated
to increase by at least

by 2050

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              198 


OPPORTUNITY #41

What if digital realities rewrote liability laws in the
real world?

LAW AND
ORDER FOR
WEB 3.0

New models of liability emerge from our online lives and
reshape liability laws and regulations in the real world.


MEGATREND

Digital Realities

TRENDS 

Cybersecurity

Legal Transformation
Metaverse

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Cyber & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Financial Services & Investment
Immersive Technologies

Insurance & Reinsurance


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

A legal liability arises when a party has certain responsibilities towards
another party in a given area and this should be no different for digital
realities, avatars, all parties involved in the associated online flows of
goods and services and the value they generate. Cybercriminals seek to
exploit human or security vulnerabilities to steal data, passwords and,
more directly, money. From hacking and phishing to ransomware and
Denial of Service (DoS),686 cyberattacks can be emotionally and finan-
cially devastating with victims displaying mental health symptoms of
anxiety, depression and paranoia.687

Just over $3.2 billion of cryptocurrency was stolen from various ex-
changes, platforms and private entities.688 As FTX – one of the world’s
largest cryptocurrency exchanges – filed for bankruptcy on 11 November
2022, transfers and deposits were being made into what was perceived
as anonymous decentralised finance (DeFi) wallets.689

Like non-fungible tokens (NFTs), decentralised finance (DeFi) wallets
and platforms — part of digital realities — also face attacks that arise
from vulnerabilities in underlying protocols or smart contracts. An anal-
ysis found that over half of the value stolen from DeFi protocols hap-
pened by exploiting vulnerabilities in code in 2021.690 Besides security
breaches, other reasons for theft include flash loan attacks.691 This type
of attack occurs through the use of funds obtained through a flash loan

– a service provided by many DeFi platform exchanges – to manipulate
the price of cryptocurrency tokens across platforms. The attacker then
sells all their tokens at once at a profit.692

On average globally, the cost of a data breach was $4.35 million in 2022,
although in the United States the figure was $9.4 million.693 The share

of breaches caused by ransomware grew by 41% in 2021, and this type
of breach took 49 days longer than average — 277 days in 2022 — to
identify and contain.694

Microsoft processes 24 trillion signals every 24 hours and its security
solutions (e.g. those built into Windows) blocked billions of attacks
on its customers in 2021.695 Tracking more than 35 unique
ransomware families and 250 unique threat actors across the globe
plus those who participate in the rising ransomware-as-a-service
(RaaS) gig economy,696 more companies are taking a zero trust ap-
proach to security to reduce both the number and

scale of cyberattacks.697


THE OPPORTUNITY

Avatars bartering or exchanging virtual goods and services in fully dig-
ital worlds are a long way from what most legal and judicial systems are
designed to manage.698 As more users and businesses move to or start
up  in digital realities, there will inevitably be a need for systems

to define and protect rights and clearly outline liabilities.

Existing laws and regulations could be reviewed and a new global frame-
work for legal liability could be defined and built into future legislation.

Crossing multiple jurisdictions and liabilities, this effort could bring
together a partnership of governments, legal researchers and practi-
tioners, software programmers, investors and regulatory bodies, paving
a new way of thinking about and transacting

in digital realities.

Real-world legal systems may not be easily transferable to digital re-
alities. Moreover, given the transnational nature of digital realities and
the novel forms of services, goods, currencies and entities found within
them, the challenge – as acknowledged in Europe699 – is non-trivial.

When it comes to fraud, identity theft, defamation and crime,700 it is cur-
rently unclear how legal liability would apply, who it would apply to, what
laws and regulations would be applicable, and which court(s)

of law would be used to enforce actions and penalties.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Liability protection and enforce-
ment in digital realities. Gains in
efficiency, time and cost-savings
by reducing the need for spe-
cialised legal research and case
development.

Tensions between nation-states’
legacy systems (designed for
physical entities) and emerging
digital realities, causing gaps
and conflicting approaches that
leave many in legal limbo with
contradictory outcomes.


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

LAW AND ORDER FOR WEB 3.0

$3.2

of cryptocurrency was stolen from various exchanges,
platforms and private entities

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              202 


OPPORTUNITY #42

What if accounting reinvented itself?

ACCOUNTING
FOR
INNOVATION

Enabled by a range of technological advances, new
means of valuation, measurement and reporting make
historical accounting approaches redundant, opening up
new opportunities for innovation in problem-solving and
fraud detection.


MEGATREND

Devaluation of Raw Data

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
Edge Computing

Future of Purpose & Work
Internet of Things (IoT)

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Financial Services & Investment
Immersive Technologies

Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Real Estate


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


The operating costs relating to
compliance grew by over

for retail and corporate banks

between 2014 and 2022

Impacting accounting practices, the operating costs relating to compli-
ance grew by over 60% for retail and corporate banks between 2014 and
2022.701 These costs are associated with increasing regulatory changes
driven by developments in crypto assets, operational resilience, sanc-
tions, digitisation and environmental, social and governance (ESG)
matters. In 2021 for example, and impacting 190 countries around the
globe, an average of 246 regulatory alerts were sent daily, equating to
64,152 alerts annually.702

At the same time, the COVID-19 pandemic led to a surge in reliance
on digital payments. In low- and middle-income countries (excluding
China), over 40% of adults made payments using a card, phone or the
internet for the first time.703 In the United Arab Emirates, two-thirds of

residents increased their use of digital payment methods in 2021 (higher
than the global average of 61%).704

More generally, digital trade is the trade in goods and services that are
digitally ordered and/or digitally delivered.705 In 2021, digitally deliv-
erable services reached almost 64% of global services exports.706 The

e-commerce market is projected to increase from $3.3 trillion in 2022 to

$5.4 trillion in 2026.707 In 2022, digital payments had a total transaction
value of $8.5 trillion and 25% of global small and medium businesses
have adopted financial application programming technologies and dis-
tributed accounting technologies.708

The global smart sensor market – which enables smart parcel tracking

– is also evolving and is expected to grow at a compound annual growth
rate (CAGR) of 13.7%, from $32 billion in 2021 to $77 billion in 2028.709
The RFID tag market was worth $10 million in 2021 and is expected to
reach nearly $18 million in 2028.710

The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region’s smart sensor market
is expected to double from nearly $2 billion in 2021 to $4 billion by 2028,
an increase at a CAGR of nearly 11%.711 It is estimated that the United
Arab Emirates’ share of the smart sensor market will grow at a CAGR of
16% in the period 2021–26, reaching a valuation of $842 million.712


THE OPPORTUNITY

Through advanced machine intelligence, distributed ledger technol-
ogies (DLT), the Internet of Things (IoT) and advanced analytics, the
accounting profession can be re-engineered into one that is focused on
innovation through problem-solving, fraud detection and evolving the
capture  of assets and flows. Blockchain technology will help to guar-
antee authenticity when accounting data is shared, also assuring its
security.714 Fully automated, collection and analysis is customised. Al-
gorithms could continuously generate total value and accounting / cash
flows, analysing financial and non-financial data, automatically checking
for compliance and formatting reports according to national and inter-
national standards.

The ability to improve the capture and use of accounting information
with a high degree of automation and customisation means that it will be
possible to embed new forms of value into accounting processes in both
the public and the private sectors. Examples of areas where these new
forms of value will emerge include environmental, social and governance
(ESG)715 metrics; sustainability, ecosystem and carbon accounting sys-
tems for governments (such as the United Nations’ System of Environ-
mental–Economic Accounting, or SEEA);716 and measures of inclusive
wealth     more generally. Regulatory bodies, funders and philanthropists
will more quickly be able to identify the efficiency and effectiveness of
underlying organisations.

These technologies could massively reduce business costs and enable
companies to better manage their liquidity and finances. Enabling busi-
nesses, governments and supervisory agencies – for example, financial
regulators and environmental agencies – to access real-time informa-
tion and analysis would increase the overall efficiency of the financial
system and mitigate the risks that come from lagging, poor-quality or
incorrect accounting and financial reporting.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Improved transparency,

efficiency and resource allocation.

Efficiency in detecting fraud
and embedding new regulations
and flows into accounting and
reconciliation processes.

Vulnerability of systems to cy-
berattacks due to heavy reliance
on automated analysis. Issues
from barriers to adoption, such as
resistance to change and the high
price  of technology.713


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

ACCOUNTING FOR INNOVATION 

GLOBAL SERVICE EXPORTS
IN 2021


OTHER
SERVICES

DIGITALLY
DELIVERABLE
SERVICES

64%

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              206 


OPPORTUNITY #43

What if deliveries went underground?

HATCHES,
TUBES  AND
ROBOT
DISPATCHES

An AI-powered pneumatic tube system for city-wide
delivery on demand that offers a completely integrated on-
demand delivery model reviving an old approach with the
technological advances needed.


MEGATREND

Devaluation of Raw Data

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
HumanXMachine
New Materials
Quantum Technology

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Infrastructure & Construction
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                               207


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Delivery services have grown exponentially as consumers continue to
switch from physical to online retail. E-commerce will account for just
over 20% of global retail sales by the end of 2022, up from 10% in 2017.717

Valued at $3.3 trillion in 2022, e-commerce sales are expected to grow
to $5.4 trillion by 2026.718 In 2021 Amazon shipped an estimated 7.7
billion packages globally.719 In the United States, 21.5 billion parcels were
shipped in 2021 at a rate of 683 parcels per second and 166 parcels per
household.720 In the United Kingdom, 5.4 billion parcels were shipped in
2021    at a rate of 171 parcels per second and 192 parcels per household.721
In India, 2.7 billion parcels were shipped in 2021 at a rate of 85 per sec-
ond and 11 parcels per household.722

As cities grow, couriers compete for road space with commuters and
essential transport (e.g. emergency services). On-demand delivery
comes   at significant hidden environmental and economic costs not least
from vehicle emissions and increased wear and tear on infrastructure.723
With the aim of finding ways to reduce delivery related emissions, a
study in central Tokyo, Japan, estimated that switching to electric vehi-
cles would account for a 20% drop in carbon dioxide emissions in urban
areas. A further 14% could be gained through the use of hydrogen-fu-

el-cell electric vehicles, another 8% from delivery robots and 7% from
autonomous ground vehicle (AGV) lockers. The rest of the approaches
examined by the study were minimally impactful from an emissions per-
spective; these included micro-hubs, parking retrofits, delivery parking
zones, drones and tricks, parcel boxes and goods trams.724

Survey figures show that, while 26% of US retailers offered same-day
delivery by the end of 2021 compared to 46% in Canada and 34% in the
EU and the UK, 1% of retailers in all four countries do not have plans for
same-day delivery by 2025 with the remainder — 73% of US retailers,
54%   of Canadian retailers and 66% in the EU and the UK — plan to offer
it by 2025.725 Demand for express delivery will result in there being 36%
more delivery vehicles in inner cities by 2030.726


Valued at

$3.3

TRILLION

in 2022

e-commerce sales are
expected to grow to

$5.4

TRILLION

by 2026

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              208 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The idea of a city-wide pneumatic tube system is not new – no longer
operational because of high operational costs, the New York postal
service was connected in 1897 through pipes that delivered letters and
parcels around the city.727

New materials, new building techniques and automated, AI-powered
distribution centres could offer completely integrated on-demand
delivery models giving traction in reviving the former approach. Pneu-
matic tunnels (also called vacuum tunnels) embedded into the urban
infrastructure to connect buildings and distribution nodes could offer
‘beyond-the-doorstep’ delivery solutions to hospitals and other critical
services.    With development costs integrated into zoning and real estate
plans, the tunnel system could be run on a pay-per-use basis.

Integrating small robotic distribution centres around cities would mean
that packages could be electronically tagged for delivery to an address
and loaded into a sealed pipe for instant dispatch. Buildings would be
equipped with hatches where goods could be sent and received. Perfect
traceability of goods from dispatch to delivery would be guaranteed,

as the system would automatically track tagged goods via distributed
ledger technology databases.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Reduced traffic. Environmental
benefits. Reduced costs caused by
delays, damage and losses. Faster,
more secure deliveries.

Long wait times to connect older
buildings due to the high costs
of retrofitting pipe systems.

Risk of pipe damage creating
delivery bottlenecks and/or dam-
aging goods. High costs or high
difficulty of adequately maintain-
ing the pneumatic system. Risk
of unauthorised use of pipes for

transport of illegal goods or cyber-
attacks.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              209 


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

HATCHES, TUBES AND ROBOT DISPATCHES 

E-commerce was expected to account for just over

20% OF
GLOBAL
RETAIL
SALES

by the end of 2022, up from 10% in 2017

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              210 


OPPORTUNITY #44

What if we could make new materials in seconds?

FRESH
THREADS

Advanced machine intelligence enables novel algorithmic
models and techniques for predicting how new materials will
function, accelerating the discovery of new materials.


MEGATREND

Materials Revolution

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
HumanXMachine
New Materials
Quantum Technology

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Health  & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining
Utilities


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


10% 8%

Algorithms can push the boundaries of what can be achieved in materi-
als science, by accelerating progress and unlocking materials previously
unachievable by humans alone. Materials science and innovation are
key     to disruptive innovation. 3M and Hitachi are two companies that are
frontrunners in materials innovation, each investing approximately $1.9
billion  per year in research and development (5.9%728 and 3.4%729 of their
revenues, respectively).

Materials science and innovation is also not new. Since 1859, scientists
have been trying to achieve a single-layer material using chemical and
mechanical methods involving expensive and specialised equipment,
but   it was not until 2004 that graphene was first isolated from graphite.
Almost invisible, graphene is 200 times stronger than steel and is the
most conductive material discovered to date, yet it is stable and

non-reactive,730 promising to transform sectors.

Materials science and innovation are also critical to decarbonisation731
and transportation.732

For example, a 10% reduction in vehicle weight through the use of light-
weight materials can result in up to an 8% improvement in fuel efficien-
cy.733 Using lightweight materials in only one quarter of US

cars and trucks could save more than 22.7 billion litres of fuel

annually by 2030734 – that is, approximately 3.7% of the fuel these vehi-
cles consumed in 2021.735 Similarly, a 20% reduction in aircraft weight
through the use of lightweight materials has resulted in up to 12% effi-
ciency.736


Vehicle
Weight

Fuel Effi-
ciency

The lightweight materials market is estimated to reach $279 billion by
2030, having grown from just over $172 billion in 2021 at a compound
annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.5%.737


A 10% REDUCTION

in vehicle weight through the

use of lightweight materials

can result in up to an

8% IMPROVEMENT

in fuel efficiency

Materials innovation also shapes the future of robotics,738 smart materi-
als and nanomaterials.739 The market for robotics is expected

to reach $214 billion by 2030, growing at a CAGR of almost 23%.740
The smart materials market was valued at $5 billion in 2021 and is
expected to reach $8 billion by the end of 2027, growing at a CAGR of
6.9%.741 The global nanomaterials market was estimated to be worth
nearly $10 billion in 2021.742


THE OPPORTUNITY

Currently even the most powerful Artificial Intelligence (AI) models
used for materials science sacrifice accuracy for speed, which can prove
problematic when materials are being designed to function in specific
situations, such as in microelectronics.743 Today, complex simulations

– for example, of the properties of new metal alloys – can take days or
even weeks to run, and it can take decades to develop new materials.744
Further vast improvements are needed in advanced machine intelli-
gence relating to materials.745

Improving accuracy and speed across property prediction, function
and complex interactions could revolutionise fields such as medicine,
energy, construction and aviation.746 High-speed processors could run
millions of simulations in milliseconds, enabling ultra-rapid design and
testing of novel materials in multiple configurations.747

Novel algorithmic models and techniques for predicting how new mate-
rials will function could be used to improve materials discovery. These
advances could make it possible to design, prototype and test new
materials and properties (or optimise existing materials and properties)
in highly complex environments – for example, in the engineering of
biomaterials for organ repair or in carbon dioxide capture.

Such exponential increases in the speed and accuracy of materials
modelling would result in reduced development costs, accelerated
lab-to-market times and improved return on investment. Ultra-rapid

advances in materials would drive breakthroughs in energy storage and
transmission, transport, sustainable production and consumption and
healthcare and well-being.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Faster, more cost-effective
development of new materials.
Reduced environmental impact
and more versatile materials.

Ability to identify and address the
potential risks of novel materials
before widespread use.

Delays to the regulatory reforms
that would be needed to aid inno-
vation and discovery

of new materials. Use of advances
to do harm.


20%

TRANSFORMATIONAL 

FRESH THREADS 

REDUCTION
IN AIRCRAFT
WEIGHT

through the use of lightweight materials,
has resulted in up to

12%
EFFICIENCY

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              214 


OPPORTUNITY #45

What if the Fortune Global 500 was purely virtual?

GOING

ALL-DIGITAL

Operating entirely in digital realities, virtual companies
generate more revenue than physical ones.


MEGATREND

Digital Realities

TRENDS 

Digital Economy

Future of Purpose & Work
Metaverse

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Financial Services & Investment
Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance  & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Media  & Entertainment

Real Estate


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Digitally native brands (DNBs), also called native virtual companies
(NVCs),748 have become market disruptors. On average, they grow at tri-
ple  the rate of the overall e-commerce market, and those with the fastest
growth have gone from $50 million in revenues to $1 billion

in four to eight years.749

Impacting on those who set up, operate and consume products and ser-
vices from DNBs, there is an upward trend both in terms of access

to and the time spent using the internet.750

Globally, over 12.5 trillion hours were spent online in 2021.751 More than
two-thirds of the global population use a mobile phone, with the number
of unique users having reached just over 5 billion by the end of 2021,752
and 63% of the world’s population now has access to the internet,753
spending an average of 2 hours 27 minutes per day on social media.754
However, trends differ widely by country, as residents in emerging mar-
kets spend the most time on social media, possibly because of a higher
proportion of young people (those in the 16- to 24-year-old segment).755

The global gig economy both enables and is enabled by DNBs. Even
though the employment status of gig workers is being reviewed in
Europe, the United Kingdom756 and the United States,757 gig workers
are expected to make up nearly 10% of all freelancers by 2023, with
the number of workers reaching 78 million and wage disbursements

growing to nearly $300 billion.758 Transportation and delivery platforms
comprised 83% of all platform revenues in 2021 and India supplied

25% of online web-based labour.759 While the United States has one of
the biggest gig economies in the world, with a 44% share of the global
volume of the gig economy,760 other countries are also experiencing
growth in their own gig economies, including Brazil, France, India and
the United Kingdom.761 The gig economy is also disrupting start-ups and
employment in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA),762 with no less
than 14 million gig workers in Egypt.763 By 2023, the revenues from the
global gig economy are expected to be valued at $455 billion.764


THE OPPORTUNITY

As the number and economic impact of DNBs expand with the rise in
digital reality populations, they offer entrepreneurs the potential to
develop and scale new business ideas and models rapidly, driving com-
petition, customer choice and growth similarly to how multinational cor-
porations once did in their early days.765 Large, established DNBs could
become standard-setters for markets, as they continue to grow and out-
strip real-world companies and become engines of growth forming the
largest companies globally in revenues without any physical presence.

The global economy is increasingly driven by digital goods and services.
Many companies and business models already function entirely in digital
spaces, with client, supplier and employee interactions taking place at a
distance. In such cases, physical headquarters exist for legal and fiscal
purposes only. The emergence of digital realities offers an entirely new
space for companies to establish a presence and build markets, raising
interesting legal, fiscal and cultural questions. Regulations will need to
be reviewed to enable the growth of DNBs while also protecting inves-
tors and consumers alike.

DNBs are also responding to the demands of populations in digital
realities. Their roles range from real estate and token management
to guiding people through the maze of principles and rules governing

different digital reality spaces. These brands offer products and services
that enhance life in digital realities, in areas including entertainment,
education, finance and identity.

BENEFITS          RISKS


An open business environment
that enables company agility to
improve consumer choice and
offer opportunities and flexibility
in employment. Creation of space
for greater entrepreneurship.

Accelerated growth due to the
ability to transcend borders.

Fraudulent behaviour in less regu-
lated spaces reducing trust in such
companies. Increase in cyberse-
curity risks. Return to the multina-
tional corporation model if brands
evolve back to having

a physical presence.


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

GOING ALL-DIGITAL 

The gig workers are expected to make up nearly

10%

OF ALL
FREELANCERS

by 2023

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              218 


OPPORTUNITY #46

What if future potential was reported alongside
GDP?

GROSS
DOMESTIC
FUTURE
(GDF)

The stock of various national assets complement GDP
as a measure of a country’s future potential growth,

or gross domestic future (GDF). These assets include
natural resources, human capital, intellectual capital,
physical capital and capacities for innovation and
technological development.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Artificial Intelligence
ESG & Beyond GDP
Real-time Analytics

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Metals & Mining

Real Estate
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

The Human Development Index, maintained by the United Nations
Development Programme, incorporates the conventional approach to
measuring economic progress, education and health, which are impor-
tant variables in determining the development of a society.766 However,
new measures intended to capture broader aspects – both qualitative
and quantitative – are becoming increasingly prominent. Examples
include the Global Competitiveness Index (141 countries in 2020),767 the
Legatum Prosperity Index (167 countries in 2021)768 and the Global In-
novation Index (132 countries in 2021).769 Businesses are also looking to
better assess and incorporate social and environmental aspects in their
reporting, as evidenced by the rise in environmental, social and govern-
ance (ESG) benchmarking.770

Countries such as New Zealand have introduced a ‘well-being budget’.
Such metrics go beyond GDP to encompass broad outcomes including
health and safety, in order to assess the success of related policies.771
The New Zealand government also conducts assessments of its citizens
asking them to evaluate their current life satisfaction and expected level
of life satisfaction in five years’ time, and to provide objective informa-
tion such as their employment status.772

The United Arab Emirates (UAE) undertakes a host of initiatives and
research efforts to assess the well-being and happiness of its citizens.773
The UAE University has set up the Emirates Center for Happiness Re-
search to offer evidence-based methods to implement initiatives that
will help to enhance happiness and future well-being.774

Global GDP has increased tremendously over the past 50 years, grow-
ing from around $3 trillion in 1970 to $96 trillion in 2021.775 Estimates
suggest that if countries and businesses prioritised nature, they could
generate $10 trillion in annual business value, creating 395 million jobs
by 2030.776


THE OPPORTUNITY

Gross domestic product (GDP) captures the monetary value of the final
goods and services (bought by end consumers) produced in a country
in a year. It includes most outputs generated within the borders of a
country and determines the size of its economy accordingly.777 However,
although it is often seen as a measure of welfare and future economic
success,778 it fails to capture both of these elements comprehensively.

This is because current economic flows do not reflect the future poten-
tial of an economy, which can be further developed.

Measuring assets critical to future growth and development differen-
tiates a country’s potential from its past performance and offers new
perspectives for investment and long-term planning. New measures can
inspire greater action to develop, protect or restore assets recognised
as economically valuable. The new system will be supported by advanc-
es in ways to monitor, measure and collate non-financial and non-con-
ventional data in real time, such as data on biodiversity, skills and talent,
cultural and Indigenous sites and heritage.

Forested and less agriculturally intensive countries can benefit from
the global demand for natural carbon sinks. Youthful countries that are

focusing on the use of technology in education and employment can see
their demographic and economic capital boom as ageing accelerates in
many regions. Indigenous cultures and traditions can become more val-
uable over time as sources of skills, information and know-how that can
be leveraged for education and scientific research, and to draw tourism.
Countries that are preserving or successfully restoring biodiversity can
leverage their environmental and genetic capital to achieve improved
well-being but also to encourage innovation in the areas of medicine and
materials.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Better measurement of assets,
allowing nations to sustainably
develop and use what they have
for future growth, prosperity and
well-being.

Lower rankings for smaller coun-
tries (in terms of land mass and/or
population size) and more trade-
led economies, leading to reduced
access to benefits that depend on
assessment of monetary value of
final goods

and services.


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

GROSS DOMESTIC FUTURE (GDF) 

Estimates suggest that if countries
and businesses prioritised nature,
they could generate

$10

in annual business value, creating

395

MILLION

by 2030

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              222 


OPPORTUNITY #47

What if we could X-ray the whole planet?

EARTH

X-PLORATION

Cosmic ray imaging technology makes it possible to ‘X-ray’
the entire world, revealing new sources of water, energy,
minerals and other resources while helping to identify
geological and structural problems.


MEGATREND

Saving Ecosystems

TRENDS 

Food—Water—Energy Nexus
Future of Raw Materials
Transforming Energy

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance  & Reinsurance
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


As the world transitions towards
clean energy, by 2040, demand
for minerals – from chromium,
copper and cobalt to Lithium,
Nickel and Aluminum — could
have increased up to

Beneath the surface, the earth’s mantle is made up of three sub-lay-
ers, which together are 2,900 kilometres thick and make up 84% of
the planet’s volume.779 While the exact internal structure of the earth
is not known, geologists have hypothesised that some of the mantle
rock beneath the lower mantle holds water.780 If just 1% of the weight of

the mantle rock was water, that would equate to almost three times the
amount of water in the oceans.781

Conventional ways of looking for resources (such as oil and gas) are
often costly and time-consuming, involving seismic studies and drilling
dry wells.782 The cost of a failed exploration can be anywhere from $5
million to $20 million or more per exploration site.783 In Newfoundland,
Canada, the exploration and drilling of offshore oil wells cost nearly $91
million per well between 1998 and 2019.784

The shift towards renewable energy is likely to drive up demand for
exploration for minerals and metals.785 By 2040, demand for minerals —
from chromium, copper and cobalt to lithium, nickel and aluminum — to
could have increased up to four times, from around 7 million tonnes to
28 million tonnes, as the world transitions towards clean energy.786

Funded by the National Science Foundation in 1958, project Mohole
aimed to reach the ‘Moho’, the crust–mantle boundary most easily
reached by drilling through the sea floor.787 The mantle itself may poten-
tially be a natural source for many minerals788 and, despite its failure to
achieve its intended purpose of reaching the Moho by 1966, Project Mo-
hole opened up new exploratory and positioning techniques and drilled
over 180 metres into the sea floor beneath 3.5 kilometres of water – the
deepest anybody had drilled at that time.789

Other programmes have emerged since then. The Japan Agency for
Marine–Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) set up a floating lab-
oratory for a deep sea drill to reach the earth’s mantle at a point where
tectonic plates meet. Even though this was not achieved, the project
was able to drill nearly 3.3 kilometres into the seafloor, at a cost of ap-
proximately $55 million.790

Russian scientists took 20 years to drill a hole just over 12 kilometres
deep in the sea floor, but drilling was abandoned in 1992 when temper-
atures of 180°C were reached and drill bits damaged.791 Interestingly,
and as a potential source of clean energy, Quaise, a spin-off of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) born out of nuclear fusion
research, has raised $63 million to dig further into the earth’s crust to
access this geothermal power.792


THE OPPORTUNITY

No one has drilled beyond the earth’s mantle.793 While satellite imagery
is revealing more information about what lies on the earth’s surface and
just beneath, exploring deeper is expensive and time-consuming.794 Ad-
vanced cosmic ray imaging technology and instrumentation can reveal
what lies far beneath our feet.795

Cosmic ‘X-ray’ technology can reveal untapped sources of critical min-
erals, reduce the time and cost required to identify new sources of geo-
thermal energy, improve groundwater surveying and provide enhanced
geological data for urban and project development.

Advances are steadily being made using X-ray computed tomography
(XCT)796 as well as 2D and 3D X-ray and neutron-based imaging tech-
niques797 to obtain the most accurate imagery and identify even the
most minute elements present in the geological core of the earth. A
combination of these and cosmic ray imaging technologies can be used
to  reveal new aspects of our planet, identify and better manage new and
existing resources.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Economically valuable information
about natural resources below

the earth’s surface. Improved
understanding and management
of resources. More effective
spending on infrastructure
development and safety,
contributing   to economic growth
and well-being.

Winner-takes-all approach to
using the technology to find new
resources. Failure of cosmic ray
imaging technologies to take off
like other radiography techniques
(despite increased funding) and to
deliver on their promise. Resource
depletion that undermines efforts
to protect and preserve the planet.


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

EARTH X-PLORATION 

Earth’s Mantle

Outer Core

Inner
Core

The Earth’s mantle is made up of

three sub-layers, which together are

2,900

KILOMETRES

thick and make up

of the planet’s volume

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              226 


OPPORTUNITY #48

What if energy was stored in space?

SPACE AS
STORAGE

Space becomes a site for mass energy storage, with
supercapacitors transmitting energy to meet all human
needs both on earth and in space.


MEGATREND

Energy Boundaries

TRENDS 

Future of Space
Transforming Energy

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Communication Technologies & Systems
Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Infrastructure & Construction

Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Metals & Mining
Utilities

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              227 


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

Global energy consumption is expected to increase by 50% by 2050,
with renewable energy use projected to grow at the same rate798 as there
is a strong trend towards renewable energy as countries seek to reduce
their reliance on fossil fuels and cut their emissions while better preserv-
ing natural ecosystems.799

However, there are certain problems with the production and use of en-
ergy from sources such as solar radiation, wind and other natural sourc-
es. Energy derived from solar panels or wind needs to be charged in
preparation for consumption, and energy needs to be stored properly for
long-term availability800 particularly when there is not enough sunlight
or  there are unfavourable wind conditions. This is especially the case
during long, dark winters, when energy is in high demand.801

In space, the need for long-term energy storage is also growing. As of
2021, the space launch market was worth $6.6 billion with a compound
annual growth rate (CAGR) of nearly 15%,with market growth primar-
ily driven by rising demand for small satellites.802 The United States

is planning to build a lunar base through its $93 billion Artemis pro-
gramme.803 A similar joint venture was announced by Russia and China
in  2021. They aim to set up an uncrewed lunar base around 2030.804 In
2023 at least six countries – India, Japan, Russia, South Korea,

United Arab Emirates and the United States – intend to send missions
to the moon.805 And with more people increasingly becoming interested
in space tourism and not just to experience space conditions but also to
experience living in space,806 greater capabilities are required for long-
term energy storage.

In 2023 at least six countries

INDIA
JAPAN
RUSSIA

SOUTH KOREA
UAE

UNITED STATES

intend to send missions to the moon

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              228 


THE OPPORTUNITY

The ability to store energy in space would not just expand what can be
done in space but also revolutionise access to energy on earth. Finding
robust and efficient methods of long-term energy storage will be im-
portant. Storage of energy in space can provide a solution and help to
future-proof the planet against a possible energy crisis.

The most notable feature of supercapacitors, when they are used as en-
ergy storage devices, is their ability to bridge the gap in energy between
conventional capacitors, batteries and fuel cells. They also have high
power density and a long life span.807 The global supercapacitor market
was valued at $5 billion in 2021. Expanding at a CAGR of just over 23%, it
is expected to reach a valuation of $25 billion by 2030.808

With sufficient advances – in areas such as materials science, advanced
machine intelligence, nanotechnology and robots – massive ener-

gy-storage units with powerful, lightweight supercapacitors can store
vast reserves of energy generated in space (via solar or other technolo-
gies), benefitting from space’s unique conditions (cold and zero grav-
ity). This energy can then be beamed to earth on demand or used for
space stations, exploration and bases as a reliable source of power.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Expanded access to energy on
earth, supporting further space
activity and contributing to
growth.

Human-caused or accidental dam-
age (e.g. from space debris) to
space energy-generation facilities
and supercapacitors. Maintenance
costs (due to damage) that make
facilities too expensive to main-
tain.

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              229 


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

SPACE AS STORAGE 

The global supercapacitor market

was valued at

$5 BILLION

in 2021 and is expected to reach

$25

BILLION

by 2030

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              230 


OPPORTUNITY #49

What if businesses considered the future
beyond ESG?

ESG-F:
INTO THE
FUTURE

Beyond environment, social and governance (ESG),
businesses report on how their approaches to ESG are fit
for long-term impact, preventing gaps from arising and
anticipating the concerns of stakeholders in the future.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

ESG & Beyond GDP

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Metals & Mining

Real Estate
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY

In 2004, the International Finance Corporation together with the World
Bank Group and 20 global banks, asset managers and investment banks
coined the term ‘environmental, social and governance’ (ESG) in re-
sponse to a widening gap between the financial industry and changing
expectations in these areas.809 ESG was viewed as a means of raising
shareholder value and global competitiveness and of supporting sus-
tainable development and investment, and the integration of ESG and
reporting was key for the financial industry.810

Since then, interest in and implementation of ESG have spread to other
industries, with more investors and customers seeking transparency
from companies about the activities they carry out under ESG.811 Glob-
ally, ESG assets amounted to $41 trillion in 2022 and are expected to
exceed $50 trillion by 2025.812 Europe’s ESG market and associated
prudential requirements are among the most mature in the world.813
Reflecting this, in the lead-up to 2018, Europe’s year-on-year growth in
ESG assets accounted for half of the world’s total.814 Both investors and
organisations in Europe see ESG as central to their investment decisions
and how they communicate their legitimacy to their stakeholders.815

However, the United States is catching up, particularly as the global
focus on ESG increases and the focus on corporate social responsibility
(CSR) decreases.816 The United States witnessed more than 40% growth
in ESG assets between 2020 and 2022, and the value of its market
exceeded $20 trillion in 2022.817 More than 90% of companies listed on
the  S&P 500 and more than 70% of the Russell 1000 report on ESG.818
Although ESG reporting is not mandated by law or through financial
regulation in all countries around the world, this is changing. The US
Securities and Exchange Commission and the European Commission
have announced increased disclosure and reporting requirements,819
and these will have an impact on ESG reporting around the world.

While countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) have al-
ready progressed on governance-related standards, they are still in the
early stages of transitioning to reporting on environmental and social
standards.820 More significantly, Bahrain, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates, have made considerable net zero commitments
for 2050 and 2060.821 And companies in this region are more likely to
be prepared to embed social goals – particularly family businesses.822
Families own 75% of the businesses in the MENA region823 and many of
them will already have a clear set of societal values embedded in their
day-to-day operations.824


THE OPPORTUNITY

There are three general approaches to ESG action and reporting: pre-
venting harm; delivering value outside core activities, which is closer to
corporate social responsibility (CSR); and full integration into strategy
and operations.825

As stakeholders and investors call for more transparency on ESG report-
ing826 – particularly in response to increasing concerns about ‘green-
washing’827 – companies can strengthen their disclosures by showing
how   their approaches to ESG are fit for the future. Between standards,
frameworks, ratings and rankings, and various approaches to ESG
reporting,828 companies can not only report on how they are responding
to   ESG needs today but also on how they are prepared for ESG needs to-
morrow and how sustainable their actions will be in the long run beyond
preparedness and operational risk management.

By embedding the future into ESG reporting, along with their purpose,
their culture and values, their operations and their growth plans,829 com-
panies will truly be deemed as future ready.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Evidence that companies are
committed to ESG in both the
short term and the long term.
Greater focus within companies’
strategies. Greater competitive
advantage, particularly with the
younger generations.

Difficulty making global com-
parisons due to inconsistent
approaches to ESG. Continued
‘greenwashing’ (false or exagger-
ated disclosures).

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              233 


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

ESG-F: INTO THE FUTURE 

BAHRAIN
OMAN

SAUDI ARABIA
AND UAE

have made considerable net zero commitments
for 2050 and 2060

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              234 


OPPORTUNITY #50

What if teleportation was a reality?

TELE-
POSSIBLE

Leaps in quantum physics revolutionise communication,
encryption and computation, transforming digital realities
into true realities and one day enabling teleportation of
people and things.


MEGATREND

Future Humanity

TRENDS 

Advanced Connectivity
Quantum Technology

SECTORS AFFECTED 

Agriculture & Food
Materials & Biotechnology

Automotive, Aerospace & Aviation
Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Communication Technologies & Systems
Consumer Goods, Services & Retail
Cyber   & Information Security

Data Science, AI & Machine Learning
Education

Energy, Oil & Gas & Renewables
Financial Services & Investment
Health & Healthcare

Immersive Technologies
Infrastructure & Construction
Insurance & Reinsurance
Logistics, Shipping & Freight
Manufacturing

Media & Entertainment
Metals & Mining

Real Estate
Travel & Tourism
Utilities

Government Services
Professional Services


WHY IT MATTERS TODAY


Funding for Start-Ups
in Quantum Technology
in 2021

11%

Others

50%

Venture

Capital

In 2022, the Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to Alain Aspect, John

F. Clauser and Anton Zeilinger.830 Their research in quantum mechanics
helped to prove that photons, and potentially other small particles,
could maintain a connection with each other even when apart.831

The quantum technology sector is rapidly expanding: funding for start-
ups in 2021 exceeded $1.4 billion (double the funding raised in 2020),
with the largest share going to quantum computing.832 Nearly half of all
funding comes from venture capital (50%), followed by corporate (19%),
government (12%), angel (8%) and other forms of investment.833

Between quantum sensors, quantum communications and quantum
computing, quantum technology is a growing market that is still
generally dominated by North America.834 However, while nearly 40% of
the players, over 60% of all start-up funding and 10 out of the 12 biggest
hardware players are based in North America, China is leading the
commercial implementation of quantum communications and Japan is
the frontrunner in industry adoption of quantum technologies.835 Widely
uncertain, in 2040, the market size for quantum computing is estimated
to   be $9–93 billion, followed by quantum sensors at $1–7 billion and
quantum communications at $1–6 billion.836

For example, China has committed $15 billion of public funding over
five years (2020 to 2025) to quantum technology, and in 2021, France
announced $2.2 billion plan of which $1.2 billion is of public funding
along  with the European Union which announced in 2018 a ten-year,

$1 billion programme for quantum technologies.837 While the United
Arab Emirates does not have a national strategy for quantum
technology, it is listed with Australia, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Italy,
New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland as
countries that have significant government-supported initiatives.838

A new supercomputer called Frontier (built by Hewlett Packard
Enterprise in the United States) can perform over a billion, billion
operations per second, making it the first exascale supercomputer in
the world.839 Using such supercomputers, quantum computing can
contribute to new discoveries about diseases such as cancer.840 This
will   be enhanced by the next generation of processors, which will move
beyond single-chip processing and increase in scale from 100 qubits —


8%

Angel

19%

Corporate

12%

Government

quantum-based units of information — today to 4,158 qubits by 2025.841
IBM offers a cloud-based quantum computing service which enables
the creation of powerful algorithms that can speed up applications by a
factor of 120.842


THE OPPORTUNITY

Research in quantum physics has the potential to radically disrupt
communications, encryption, computing and optics. Experiments have
already shown that it is theoretically possible to teleport particles and
photons while retaining their characteristics.843 And, while this is not
exactly teleportation, NASA has used hologram technology to project a
doctor onto the International Space Station, which is seen as one way to
expose more people to space.844

Holoportation and potentially teleportation will open up multiple new
possibilities in communications, digital realities, medicine, space and
atomically precise engineering. In communications, holoportation and
teleportation will offer an ultra-secure way to transfer and exchange
large quantities of data and send secure encrypted messages. They can
be used in immersive environments to transmit views of people (and
perhaps eventually people themselves) in real time, eliminating digitally
generated avatars.845

The movement of people and goods and our ability to participate in
social and economic activities have been core to human identity and
purpose. Evolving teleportation to atoms and one day people would
mean  that teleportation can direct materials to precise locations with-
out changing their properties.846 This would have an impact on space
exploration, medicine and even our understanding of what being human
means, and hence what our purpose is on earth.

Teleportation of people and things would lead to a repurposing of all
means of transportation, the associated infrastructure, utilities and how
we deliver services. It would also transform what we expect from educa-
tion, medicine, fitness, leisure activities, employment, shopping, travel,
tourism and social gatherings, both at the individual level and at the
community level. Our concept of space and time would fundamentally
change.847

Teleportation of people and things would change life as we know it.

BENEFITS          RISKS


Secure, instant and controllable
transmission of people and
materials enabling realistic

and secure experiences,
communications and medicine.

Unintended consequences
such as sub-atomic damage to

particles. Risk of winner-takes-all
use of teleportation technology.

Physical extinction as a result
of being everywhere, anywhere,
at any time.


TRANSFORMATIONAL 

TELEPOSSIBLE 

CHINA

has committed

$15

BILLION

of public funding over five years

(2020–2025) to quantum technology

THE GLOBAL 50 (2023)                                              238 


METHODOLOGY

METHODOLOGY


REVIEW OF PUBLISHED
TRENDS AND FUTURES

� List of reputable, global or influential institutions
that publish trends or future reports with a
balance across international government
organisations, academia, government

and private sources.

� Gather reports published between September

2021 and September 2022.

� Analyse the content and extract key messages.

THIS YEAR A detailed review

of 56 reports published by 50 reputable
organisations from a total of 160 initial reports
uncovered key trends, megatrends and
uncertainties across geographies.

EXPERT
INTERVIEWS

� Identify a main list of experts to approach for
interviews ensuring that there is coverage
across geographies, area of expertise and
sectors.

� Select experts who did not participate in

interviews the previous year.

� Conduct virtual roundtable interviews under

Chatham House rules, with the focus

on growth, prosperity and well-being, seeking
answers to the questions: ‘Irrespective of
where the world is today, what might the
future 50 years from now look like? What
is your vision for the future? What is your
wish?’

THIS YEAR Of the 30 experts,

9 provided global input, 5 from the Middle East
and North Africa (MENA) and 16 from other
countries and region in interviews conducted
between 26 July 2022 and 6 September 2022.

VIEW ON THE FUTURE AND THE PROCESS OF
FORMULATING NEW IDEAS

� Use the metareview and analysis of interviews to

validate uncertainties, assumptions and megatrends,

i.e. to reflect against our point of view on the future.

� Brainstorm and draft opportunities and questions

of the future using combination and what-if analysis to
finalise a list of opportunities.

� Select 50 opportunities to feature in this year’s report
and deduced categories.

THIS YEAR An initial brainstorm generated a total of
237 opportunities.


This research was undertaken by Dubai
Future Research, the research arm of the
Dubai Future Foundation. The Dubai Future
Foundation produces insights and foresight
reports using evidence-based analysis and
imagination that enable stakeholders to
anticipate and better navigate the future.

Our publications can be found at
www.dubaifuture.ae/insights/.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This report was prepared by Dr Heba Chehade, Dr Patrick Noack
and Abdulaziz Al Jaziri. This report has also benefited from valuable
contributions made by colleagues throughout the Dubai Future
Foundation: Abdulla Alnuaimi; Aruba Khalid; Ehab Khattab; Eman
AlKadi; Faisal Kazim; Fatma Abulhoul; Feras Sobh; Lidia Kamleh;
Saleem Stas; Shabin Parambath; Tala Anshasi; Yves Farhat.

We also wish to acknowledge the following external contributors and
interviewees:

Abir Haddad, Legal Futurist, Founder and Director,
Institute for Legal Transformation

Adama Sanneh, Co-Founder and CEO, Moleskine Foundation

Adriano Konialidis, Co-Founder and Partner, Kada Global

Alexey Prazdnichnykh, Executive Director and Senior Fellow,
Eurasia Institute

Angela Gandra da Silva Martins, Vice Minister, Human Rights for
Family, Brazil

Arturo Franco, Senior Vice President, Mastercard Centre for
Inclusive Growth

Ayla Göksel, CEO, AÇEV (Mother Child Education Foundation) and
Husnu M. Özyegin Foundation

Bashar Kilani, Managing Director, Accenture Middle East

Ben Nott, Owner, Blanco Architecture and Design

Brian Jenner, Editor

Carlos Moreira, Founder and CEO, WISeKey International Holding

Chris Shaw, Editor/Proofreader

Drew Edwards, Co-Founder and CEO, Pangea Education Development

Gerard Drenth, Partner, Normann Partners

Hazel Bird, Editor

Jane Glavan, Co-Owner, Distant Imagery

Kelsey Warner, Future Editor, The National


Kirstin Morrison, Senior Green Growth Analyst, Global Green
Growth Institute

Lynette Wallworth, Artist/Filmmaker, VR Wallworth

Marco Maria Pedrazzo, Head of Strategy and Innovation,
Carlo Ratti Associati

Marie-Valentine Florin, Executive Director, IRGC, EPFL
Matthias Chika Mordi, Chairman of the Board, United Capital
Mo Segad, Chief Scientist, Desert Control Group

Narue Shiki, Futures Lead, Strategy and Futures, UNDP

Ole Kristian Sivertsen, President and Group CEO, Desert Control

Olivier Cattaneo, Head of Unit, Policy Analysis and Strategy,
Development Co-operation Directorate, OECD

Pedro Sellos, Associate Dean, MBRSC, American University in Dubai

Piers Cumberlege, Chair, Straightview International
Puruesh Chaudhary, Founder and President, AGAHI
Robert Bood, Managing Partner, FairSights

Roni Reiter-Palmon, Director of Innovation, Center for Collaboration
Science, University of Nebraska at Omaha

Shoukei Matsumoto, Buddhist Monk, Japan

Tarifa Alzaabi, Director General, International Center for
Biosaline Agriculture

Research support provided by: Horizon Group, Switzerland.

Design support provided by: Abjad Design, UAE.

Translation support provided by: Tanwin, UAE.


GLOSSARY

Advanced machine intelligence

A future form of artificial intelligence, advanced machine intelligence
(in the context of The Global 50) is a product of algorithms, data and
processing power – including quantum computing – that enables
computers to learn from data and to analyse and model vast datasets
at  speed in order to carry out advanced problem-solving and complex

tasks. Advanced machine intelligence is referred to in the opportunities.

Agrifood systems NEW 

Agrifood systems encompass all activities in the agricultural sector:
specifically, all processes involved in the production, storage,
transportation, distribution and disposal of agricultural products, as
well as inputs and outputs, consumers and suppliers and associated
management and underlying policies.

Agritech

Agritech covers a range of technologies contributing to increased
agricultural yields and efficiency. It spans genetic modification, chemical
and biochemical pesticides, herbicides and fertilisers and technologies
for water and effluent management, harvesting, animal husbandry

and storage.

Augmented reality (AR) NEW 

Augmented reality includes both wearable technology and the outputs
of superimposing virtual reality or digital media, smells, sounds and
other sensory perceptions onto the real world.

Autonomous ground vehicle (AGV) NEW 

Autonomous ground vehicles are robotic vehicles that can perform
various tasks without human input. A combination of pre-programmed
points, computer vision and sensors guide their movement. More
advanced AGVs use AI to make decisions and navigate through, and in,
various locations.


Autonomous ground vehicle (AGV) Lockers NEW 

AGVs fitted with lockers that can travel to neighbourhoods, make door-
to-door deliveries (where available) and notify customers to collect their
parcels.

Avatar NEW 

An avatar is a two-dimensional or three-dimensional image that is
digitally designed by a human or computer. The image is intended to
embody a person’s character and may be a partial or full representation

– exaggerated or not – of how they look. Alternatively, it may be a
generated digital identity developed through the person’s choice of
character, icon or persona.

Biomaterials

Biomaterials are matter, surfaces or constructs that interact with
biological systems. They can be natural or synthetic, incorporating
metal, polymer or ceramic components. Biomaterials are designed
to have specific characteristics for use in, for example, medicine and
healthcare, textiles, building materials or packaging.

Biomimicry

Biomimicry is the imitation of natural biological forms, properties or
processes in engineering and design approaches to develop better
products and processes.

Biotechnology

Biotechnology uses and engineers living organisms and biological
matter (genetically or at the molecular level) to develop processes
and products for healthcare, pharmaceuticals, materials, fuels and
agriculture and food systems.

Brain–computer interface (BCI)

Brain–computer or brain–machine interfaces are communication
pathways that use wires connected to the brain or an external device to
‘read’ the brain’s neural signals (electron activity) or send signals to the
brain using electric currents.

Carbon capture and storage (CCS)

Carbon capture and storage is the process of capturing and storing
atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO₂). CO₂ can be stored through geological
capture – by converting the CO₂ gas into liquid under pressure and
pumping it into porous rock or former oil-extraction sites. Alternatively,
biological carbon capture is the natural absorption of CO₂ by vegetation,
soil and the oceans.


Carbon sink NEW 

A carbon sink is anything found in nature that captures and stores
carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Examples include soil, plants and
oceans.

Compound annual growth rate (CAGR)

The compound annual growth rate is the average annual growth rate
over a specific period of time that is greater than one year.

Cryptocurrency

A cryptocurrency is a digital currency that relies on encryption for
transactions and to produce new units (or coins). Cryptocurrencies are
verified and traced using distributed ledger technology (DLT).

Decentralised autonomous organisation (DAO)

A decentralised autonomous organisation is an organisation that is
governed by code and not a CEO or board of directors. Governance
tokens are held by various stakeholders who have an interest in a
particular project or the organisation and who subsequently vote on
decisions.

Decentralised autonomous organisation (DAO) proposals

Ideas presented to a DAO community for consideration and votes.

Decentralised finance (DeFi) NEW 

Decentralised finance is a type of financial service that avoids all
centralised financial service institutions and intermediary approaches to
saving, transferring, loan disbursal and other financial services. Enabled
by secure distributed ledger technology (DLT) and digital wallets, DeFi
empowers individuals, enabling them to carry out peer-to-peer financial
digital exchanges. It is claimed that DeFi avoids all of the red tape
associated with financial services today.

Decibel (dB) NEW 

The decibel is the standard unit for measuring how loud a sound is.

Denial of service (DoS)

Denial of service is a type of cyberattack that restricts access to a
system or many systems that provide services to users.


Digital native brand (DNB) NEW 

Digital native brands are brands that are born and operate entirely
online. They do not establish a physical presence and their employees
work remotely, yet many such companies are able to generate revenues
similar to those of the Global or the Fortune 500 or greater. Their only
physical presence may be for shipping and distribution in the case of
physical goods. Also called native virtual company (NVC).

Distributed ledger technology (DLT) NEW 

A distributed ledger is a database of information that is simultaneously
duplicated across a network of computers in different locations.

Blockchain, an example of a DLT, promises to deliver flexibility, security
and efficiency in recording and retrieving information. In contrast to

a centralised ledger, it is a flexible system for recording information.
A distributed ledger is a decentralised database that processes,
validates and records transactions that have been agreed upon by all

parties involved. Validated transactions are timestamped with a unique
encrypted signature. All participants on the distributed ledger can view
all records.

Driver

Drivers include phenomena, events, policies, strategies or scientific
and technological advances that create the conditions for a trend to
manifest itself and/or accelerate its impact. They can be deliberate or
spontaneous and create shifts in demand, behaviour and policies.

Ecosystem

An ecosystem consists of all living matter and organisms in a space,
their physical environment and the interactions between them.

Exascale (computing) NEW 

Exascale computing is a new type of supercomputing that surpasses
the capability of supercomputers. While supercomputer performance
is reported in FLOPS – floating-point operations per second – exascale
computing performance is reported in exaFLOPS, with an exaFLOPS
being equivalent to 1018 FLOPS.

Faraday cage NEW 

The Faraday cage, or shield, was invented by Michael Faraday in the
19th century. Faraday discovered that a thin shield of materials could
obstruct electromagnetic fields and protect anything or anyone inside
an enclosure – hence the word ‘cage’ – covered with these materials
from electromagnetic radiation.


Fascia NEW 

All of the organs, blood vessels, bones, nerves and muscles in the
human body are covered by the fascia. It is a thin web of connective
tissue that holds everything together. However, with ageing, lack of
movement, excessive repeated movement or trauma, it tightens up and
hardens around what it covers, causing pain.

Flash loans NEW 

Flash loans are available to users of decentralised finance (DeFi).
Users can obtain unsecured loans from lenders without intermediaries.
They are ‘flash’ loans because they are enabled by distributed ledger
technology (DLT), which enables them to be returned within the same
transaction, allowing for arbitrage (i.e. buying and selling to take
advantage   of price differences) across other platforms.

Gene editing

Gene editing involves making highly precise changes to a DNA
sequence using enzymes that have been engineered to target a specific
sequence for removal and replacement.

Gene therapy

Gene therapy involves modifying an individual’s genes to cure or treat
a disease. Therapies include replacing a disease-causing gene with a

healthy copy, deactivating a disease-causing gene or introducing a new
or modified gene to treat a disease. Gene therapies are in the research
stage for cancer, genetic diseases and infectious diseases.

Geoengineering

Geoengineering covers a set of technologies designed to manipulate
the environment to mitigate or partially prevent climate change effects.
Geoengineering approaches include solar radiation management, cloud
seeding and carbon dioxide removal.

Geothermal power NEW 

Geothermal power is a type of renewable energy generated from heat
stored in rocks and fluid deep underneath the earth’s crust, where
temperatures reach thousands of degrees Celsius.

Gig economy

In the gig economy, economic activity is based on flexible and temporary
employment and contracts, either as people’s primary income or as
supplementary income.


Greenhouse gases (GHGs) NEW 

Greenhouse gases are gases that trap heat emitted in the earth’s
atmosphere, causing the earth’s temperature to rise either immediately
or   over many years. This process is known as the greenhouse effect.

The accumulation of GHGs is the main cause of climate change. Gases
are emitted from industrial processes, agriculture and some modes

of transportation. However, they can also be emitted from natural
sources such as volcanoes and as a result of deforestation and melting
ice sheets.

Greenwashing NEW 

Greenwashing is the name given to the practice of intentionally making
exaggerated environmental disclosures, engaging in environmental
initiatives and/or issuing environmental commitments that are not
implemented in practice or do not deliver the intended impact. It

can mislead investors, consumers and the general public about
commitments to environmental goals.

Gross national income (GNI)

Gross national income consists of gross domestic product (GDP)
plus net overseas receipts from employees’ compensation in addition
to property income and net taxes after production subsidies.

Gigawatt (GW)

A gigawatt is a unit of energy, equal to 1 billion watts.

Gigawatt hour (GWh)

A gigawatt hour is a unit of energy representing one billion watt hours
and equivalent to one million kilowatt hours (KWh).

Human genome NEW 

The human genome consists of three billion base pairs of the human
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). Thousands of genes have been decoded
so far.

Hyperloop

A hyperloop is an ultra-high-speed transport technology that
uses a sealed, low-pressure tunnel or system of tunnels.

Electromagnetic levitation allows autonomous pods to be propelled
through the hyperloop with almost no friction.


Internet of Things (IoT) NEW 

The Internet of Things (IoT) is a concept referring to the many devices
and sensors that are connected to the internet. In this way, captured
data can be collected, shared and analysed for various purposes,
such as health monitoring, improvement and delivery; managing
smart cities; monitoring and improving manufacturing; and
administering transportation.

Interoperability

Interoperability is the capacity of different systems, devices,
applications and products to process and exchange data without delay,
disruption, errors or inconvenience to the end user.

Machines

Machines (in the context of The Global 50) are computers or robots with
intelligent processing capacity. See also advanced machine intelligence.

Microplastics NEW 

Microplastics are minuscule plastic particles (under 5 mm in size) that
emerge from various sources and processes, including friction of wheels
on roads, clothing manufacturing, plastic goods and industrial waste.

Microplastics end up in the atmosphere or in the oceans and seas and
are a health concern to both humans and animals who ingest them
either on land or in water.

Muon NEW 

Muons are formed when highly electrically charged particles – cosmic
rays – arrive from outer space and go through the earth’s atmosphere.
Muons are similar to electrons but over 200 times heavier, making them
capable of going through dense solids, including all levels of earth itself.

Nanocatalysts NEW 

Nanocatalysts are nanoparticles that increase the rate of a chemical
reaction without themselves being transformed by the reaction.

Nanometres NEW 

A nanometre is a standard unit of size: 1 metre is equivalent to 1 billion
nanometres.


Nanoparticles NEW 

A nanoparticle is a particle that is under 100 nanometres in size.

Nanoscale NEW 

Nanoscale is a scale used to measure lengths under 100 nanometres.

Nanotechnology NEW 

Nanotechnology is research, science and technology conducted
at nanoscale.

Native virtual company (NVC) NEW 

See digital native brand (DNB).

Net positive NEW 

The term ‘net positive’ refers to the state in which the amount of
greenhouse gases (GHGs) removed from the atmosphere is greater than
the amount of GHGs emitted into the atmosphere. It can also refer to the
general position of achieving more positive than negative impact on the
environment, society and beyond.

Net zero NEW 

The term ‘net zero’ refers to the state in which the amount of
greenhouse gases (GHGs) emitted into the atmosphere is equal to and
balanced by the amount of GHGs removed from the atmosphere. It can
also refer to the general position of balancing positive and negative
impacts on the environment, society and beyond.

Non-fungible token (NFT) NEW 

Non-fungible tokens represent real or digital assets that are secured
by smart contracts and reside on a blockchain with unique codes
and metadata that distinguish them from each other. NFTs can be

exchanged with cryptocurrencies. Assets include animations, images,
text, tweets, in-game items, tickets and others.

Particulate matter (PM) NEW 

Particulate matter consists of small particles found in the air. It may give
rise to health concerns and may come from natural or synthetic sources.
It includes dust, dirt, soot and smoke, and it may also be in liquid form.
PM is sometimes reported as either PM2.5 or PM10, referring to the size of
the particulate in micrometres (µm).


Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) NEW 

Post-traumatic stress disorder is a serious mental health condition.
It occurs as a result of a traumatic event or experience that people
consciously or subconsciously recall and that affects their decisions
in  daily life.

Proteome NEW 

The proteome is the set of proteins in an organism. Proteins are key to
the functioning of cells.

Quantum computing

Quantum computing is based on the principles of quantum physics
and exploits the ability of subatomic particles to exist in two states
simultaneously (e.g. 1 and 0). This exponentially increases how
much    data can be encoded (as qubits) and thus enhances potential
computational power.

Radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag NEW 

Radio-frequency identification tags are barcodes embedded in or
placed on goods in order to identify them, track them and communicate
information through radio frequency for analysis.

Ransomware NEW 

Ransomware is malicious software that is designed to carry out
cyberattacks to restrict victims’ access to their system or information
in  return for payment.

Ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) NEW 

Ransomware-as-a-service is a business model and service –
including software, infrastructure and processes – offered by and
to cybercriminals to enable them to carry out ransomware attacks
on others.

Signal

Events, hypes, new technologies, products and services, local and
regional data and disruptions that have the potential to grow to become
drivers or trends.


Smart contracts NEW 

Smart contracts are written in code and stored on a blockchain to
safeguard against theft and to protect the ownership of underlying real
or digital assets.

Space debris NEW 

Space debris encompasses both natural (e.g. meteoroids) and artificial
waste that is in orbit around the earth.

Supercomputer NEW 

A supercomputer is a computer that performs at a significantly faster
rate than general computers, as measured in floating-point operations
per second (FLOPS).

Synthetic biology

Synthetic biology involves the redesign or re-engineering of organisms
and molecules to give them new properties – for example, synthetic
enzymes capable of digesting plastic.

Teleportation NEW 

Teleportation is a theoretical possibility involving the transportation
of information and matter based on the theory of quantum mechanics
and entanglement.

Telesurgery NEW 

Telesurgery is surgery where the patient and the surgeon are in different
physical locations.

Terawatt hour (TWh) (NEW)

A terawatt hour is a standard unit of energy equivalent to 1,000 gigawatt
hours (GWh).

Trend

A sustained socio-economic, environmental or technological
change that has a measurably rising influence, such as physical or
financial impact.


Virtual reality (VR) NEW 

Virtual realities are computer-generated environments in which users
can immerse themselves using wearable headsets or other accessories.
In this way, they can interact with others and simulate real-life
experiences and reactions in fictitious environments.

Web 3.0 NEW 

Web 3.0, or Web3, is the third generation of the internet. It is
characterised by greater reliance on AI for enhanced searchability
and interaction.

Youthwashing NEW 

Similar to the term greenwashing, youthwashing (in the context of
The Global 50) means intentionally making exaggerated disclosures

related to young people, engaging in youth-based initiatives and issuing
commitments about young people that are not implemented in practice
or do not deliver the intended impact.


BIBLIOGRAPHY

www.dubaifuture.ae/the-global-50/bibliography/


REFERENCES

1  Pillemer, K. et al. (2022) ‘The benefits of intergenerational wisdom-sharing: A randomized
controlled study’. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 19: 4010.
www.mdpi.com/1660-4601/19/7/4010

2  Broom, D. (2022) ‘We’re spending more years in poor health than at any point in history: How
can we change this?’ WEF, 5 April. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/longer-healthier-lives-
everyone

3  Garcia, E. and Jordan, R. (2022) ‘Navigating social isolation and loneliness as an older adult’.
National Council on Aging, 3 May. www.ncoa.org/article/navigating-social-isolation-and-
loneliness-as-an-older-adult

4  United States Environmental Protection Agency (2022) ‘Causes of climate change’. www.epa.gov/
climatechange-science/causes-climate-change

5  World Inequality Lab (2022) ‘World inequality report 2022’. https://wir2022.wid.world

6  United Nations (2022) ‘Inequality : Bridging the divide’. www.un.org/en/un75/inequality-bridging-
divide

7  Plummer, J.A. et al. (2022) ‘Assessing the link between adolescents’ awareness of inequality and
civic engagement across time and racial/ethnic groups’. Journal of Youth and Adolescence, 51:
428–42. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10964-021-01545-6 (requires subscription).

8  De Courson, B. and Nettle, D. (2021) ‘Why do inequality and deprivation produce high crime and
low trust?’ Nature, 11: 1937. www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-80897-8

9  Perez, C. (2022) ‘It’s time for a smart, green, fair and global golden age of the information 
society’.
UNCTAD, 22 March. https://unctad.org/news/blog-its-time-smart-green-fair-and-global-golden-
age-information-society

10  Johnson, J. (2020) ‘Negative effects of technology: What to know’. Medical News Today, 25
February. www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/negative-effects-of-technology#physical-health-
effects

11  Brooks, S.M. and Alper, H.S. (2021) ‘Applications, challenges, and needs for employing synthetic
biology beyond the lab.’ Nature Communications, 12: 1390. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-
21740-0

12  Candelon, F. et al. (2022) ‘Synthetic biology is about to disrupt your industry’. Boston 
Consulting
Group, 10 February. www.bcg.com/publications/2022/synthetic-biology-is-about-to-disrupt-
your-industry

13  Chugh, A. (2021) ‘How can technological advancements in synthetic biology benefit everyone?
An expert explains’. World Economic Forum, 24 November. www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/11/
synthetic-biology-can-benefit-all-expert-explains-how 

14  Chui, M. et al. (2020) ‘The bio revolution: Innovations transforming economies, societies, and 
our
lives’. McKinsey & Company, 13 May. www.mckinsey.com/industries/life-sciences/our-insights/
the-bio-revolution-innovations-transforming-economies-societies-and-our-lives

15  Naseer, M. et al. (2022) ‘Past, present and future of materials’ applications for CO₂ capture: A
bibliometric analysis’. Energy Reports, 8: 4252–64. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S2352484722005492

16  Hare, M. (2022) ‘A sustainable future: How materials science can make the planet cleaner’. 
Oregon
State University, 19 April. https://science.oregonstate.edu/impact/2022/04/a-sustainable-future-
how-materials-science-can-make-the-planet-cleaner

17 Infinitia Industrial Consulting (2020) ‘The 5 materials of the future and their application in 
Industry
4.0’. 6 August. www.infinitiaresearch.com/en/news/the-materials-of-the-future-and-their-
application-to-science

18 Matalucci, S. (2022) ‘The hydrogen stream: Metal foam for low-cost green hydrogen generation’.
PV Magazine, 11 March. www.pv-magazine.com/2022/03/11/the-hydrogen-stream-metal-foam-
for-low-cost-green-hydrogen-generation

19  Wang, Z. et al. (2022) ‘Experimental optimization of metal foam structural parameters to improve
the performance of open-cathode proton exchange membrane fuel cell’. Frontiers in Thermal
Engineering, 5 May. www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fther.2022.900910/full

20  Future Market Insights (2022) ‘Aluminum foam market is expected to reach US$ 61.6 mn by 2030,
expanding at a CAGR of 4.4%’. GlobeNewswire, 19 August. www.globenewswire.com/news-
release/2022/08/19/2501586/0/en/Aluminum-Foam-Market-is-expected-to-reach-US-61-6-Mn-
by-2030-expanding-at-a-CAGR-of-4-4-Future-Market-Insights-Inc.html 

21  Spherical Insights (2022) ‘Global Metal Foam Market Size To Surpass USD 133 Billion By
2030 | CAGR of 4.5%’. GlobeNewswire, 30 November. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-
release/2022/11/30/2565279/0/en/Global-Metal-Foam-Market-Size-To-Surpass-USD-133-
Billion-By-2030-CAGR-of-4-5.html


22  Kapoor, B., Aurik, J.C. and Hales, M. (2022) ‘World Economic Forum: Future of semiconductors’.
Kearney, 26 July. www.kearney.com/global-strategic-partnerships/world-economic-forum/
article/-/insights/semiconductors

23  Deloitte (2022) ‘2022 semiconductor industry outlook’. www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/
technology-media-and-telecommunications/articles/semiconductor-industry-outlook.html

24  Batra, G., Santhanam, N. and Surana, K. (2018) ‘Graphene: The next S-curve for semiconductors?’
McKinsey & Company, 10 April. www.mckinsey.com/industries/semiconductors/our-insights/
graphene-the-next-s-curve-for-semiconductors

25  Costa, G.M. da and Hussain, C.M. (2020) ‘Ethical, legal, social and economics issues of 
graphene’.
Comprehensive Analytical Chemistry, 91: 263–79. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/
PMC7563095

26  Graphene Flagship (n.d.) ‘What is graphene?’ https://graphene-flagship.eu/graphene/understand

27  Costa, G.M. da and Hussain, C.M. (2020) ‘Ethical, legal, social and economics issues of 
graphene’.
Comprehensive Analytical Chemistry, 91: 263–79. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/
PMC7563095

28  Batra, G., Santhanam, N. and Surana, K. (2018) ‘Graphene: The next S-curve for semiconductors?’
McKinsey & Company, 10 April. www.mckinsey.com/industries/semiconductors/our-insights/
graphene-the-next-s-curve-for-semiconductors

29 Ibid.

30  Chandrasekaran, N. (2015) ‘Is data the new currency?’ World Economic Forum, 14 August. www.
weforum.org/agenda/2015/08/is-data-the-new-currency

31  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2020) ‘Mapping approaches to data
and data flows: Report for the G20 digital economy task force’. www.oecd.org/sti/mapping-
approaches-to-data-and-data-flows.pdf 

32  Kudo, F., Sakaki, R. and Soble, J. (2022) ‘Every country has its own digital laws: How can we
get data flowing freely between them?’ World Economic Forum, 20 May. www.weforum.org/
agenda/2022/05/cross-border-data-regulation-dfft 

33  Chui, M. and Farrell, D. (2014) ‘A closer look at open data: Opportunities for impact’. McKinsey
& Company. www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/dotcom/client_service/Public%20Sector/
GDNT/GDNT_A_closer_look_at_OpenData_FINAL.ashx 

34  European Data Portal (2020) ‘The economic impact of open data: Opportunities for value creation
in Europe’. European Union. https://data.europa.eu/sites/default/files/the-economic-impact-of-
open-data.pdf

35  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2019) ‘Enhancing access to and
sharing of data: Reconciling risks and benefits for data re-use across societies. Chapter 3:
Economic and social benefits of data access and sharing’. www.oecd-ilibrary.org//sites/90ebc73d-
en/index.html?itemId=/content/component/90ebc73d-en# 

36  White, O. et al. (2021) ‘Financial data unbound: The value of open data for individuals and
institutions’. McKinsey & Company, 24 June. www.mckinsey.com/industries/financial-services/
our-insights/financial-data-unbound-the-value-of-open-data-for-individuals-and-institutions 

37  International Data Corporation (2022) ‘Global spending on big data and analytics solutions will
reach $215.7 billion in 2021, according to a new IDC spending guide’. 17 August. www.idc.com/
getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS48165721 

38 Fortune Business Insights (2022) ‘With 13.2% CAGR, big data analytics market to surpass
USD 549.73 billion by 2028’. GlobeNewswire, 7 June. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-

release/2022/06/07/2457473/0/en/With-13-2-CAGR-Big-Data-Analytics-Market-to-Surpass-
USD-549-73-Billion-by-2028.html 

39  International Data Corporation (2022) ‘Global spending on big data and analytics solutions will
reach $215.7 billion in 2021, according to a new IDC spending guide’. 17 August. www.idc.com/
getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS48165721 

40  Zewe, A. (2022) ‘When it comes to AI, can we ditch the datasets?’ MIT News, 15 March. https://
news.mit.edu/2022/synthetic-datasets-ai-image-classification-0315 

41  Lucini, F. (2021) ‘Synthetic data for speed, security and scale’. Accenture, 29 October. www.
accenture.com/be-en/insights/artificial-intelligence/synthetic-data-speed-security-scale 

42  Research and Markets (2022) ‘Worldwide AI training dataset market (2022
to 2030)’. GlobeNewswire, 8 July. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-relea

se/2022/07/08/2476400/28124/en/Worldwide-AI-Training-Dataset-Market-2022-to-2030-
Projected-CAGR-of-22-2-During-the-Forecast-Period.html  

43 Aiyer, B. et al. (2022) ‘New survey reveals $2 trillion market opportunity for cybersecurity
technology and service providers’. McKinsey & Company, 27 October. www.mckinsey.com/
capabilities/risk-and-resilience/our-insights/cybersecurity/new-survey-reveals-2-trillion-dollar-
market-opportunity-for-cybersecurity-technology-and-service-providers 

44  Gustafsson, P. (2021) ‘4 cybersecurity strategies for small and midsize businesses’. Harvard
Business Review, 29 September. https://hbr.org/2021/09/4-cybersecurity-strategies-for-small-
and-midsize-businesses

45  Global Data (2022) ‘Cyber security market size, share and trends analysis report, … 2021–2026’.
30 August. www.globaldata.com/store/report/cybersecurity-market-analysis

46 Aiyer, B. et al. (2022) ‘New survey reveals $2 trillion market opportunity for cybersecurity
technology and service providers’. McKinsey & Company, 27 October. www.mckinsey.com/
capabilities/risk-and-resilience/our-insights/cybersecurity/new-survey-reveals-2-trillion-dollar-
market-opportunity-for-cybersecurity-technology-and-service-providers

47  IBM (n.d.) ‘AI cybersecurity solutions’. www.ibm.com/security/artificial-intelligence 
(retrieved 14
November 2022

48  Dames, A. (2022) ‘What is quantum-safe cryptography and why do we need it?’ IBM, 10 March.
www.ibm.com/cloud/blog/what-is-quantum-safe-cryptography-and-why-do-we-need-it

49  Acumen Research and Consulting (2022) ‘Artificial intelligence in cybersecurity market size to


reach USD 133.8 billion by 2030 driven by growing number of cyber attacks’. GlobeNewswire, 18
July. www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2022/07/18/2480791/0/en/Artificial-Intelligence-
in-Cybersecurity-Market-Size-to-Reach-USD-133-8-Billion-by-2030-Driven-by-Growing-
Number-of-Cyber-Attacks.html

50  Research and Markets (2022) ‘Insights on the quantum cryptography global market
to 2026’. GlobeNewswire, 1 March. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-relea

se/2022/03/01/2393979/28124/en/Insights-on-the-Quantum-Cryptography-Global-Market-to-
2026-Featuring-IBM-ID-Quantique-and-NuCrypt-Among-Others.html

51 Hazrat, M., Dara, R. and Kaur, J. (2021) ‘On-farm data security: Practical recommendations for
securing farm data’. Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems, 19 August. www.frontiersin.org/
articles/10.3389/fsufs.2022.884187/full

52  Peccoud, J. and Gallegos, J. (2018) ‘Digitizing DNA: Real reasons to worry about 
cyberbiosecurity’.
Genetic Literacy Project, 8 March. https://geneticliteracyproject.org/2018/03/08/digitizing-dna-
real-reasons-to-worry-about-cyberbiosecurity

53  Markets and Markets (2022) ‘Precision farming market’. www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-
Reports/precision-farming-market-1243.html

54  The Weather Company (2019) ‘CIO insights: The future of intelligent farming and food supply 
chain
management’. IBM. www.ibm.com/downloads/cas/2BRB2RQM

55  Straits Research (2022) ‘CRISPR gene editing market size is projected to reach USD 14.80 billion
by 2030, growing at a CAGR of 29.80%’. GlobeNewswire, 1 August. www.globenewswire.com/en/
news-release/2022/08/01/2489715/0/en/CRISPR-Gene-Editing-Market-Size-is-projected-to-
reach-USD-14-80-Billion-by-2030-growing-at-a-CAGR-of-29-80-Straits-Research.html 

56  World Bank Group (2021) ‘World development report 2021: Data for better lives’. www.worldbank.
org/en/publication/wdr2021 

57 Ibid.

58  Gustafsson, P. (2021) ‘4 cybersecurity strategies for small and midsize businesses’. Harvard
Business Review, 29 September. https://hbr.org/2021/09/4-cybersecurity-strategies-for-small-
and-midsize-businesses 

59  IBM (2022) ‘Cost of a data breach 2022: A million-dollar race to detect and respond’. www.ibm.
com/reports/data-breach 

60  Heineke, F. et al. (2022) ‘Renewable-energy development in a net-zero world’. McKinsey &
Company, 28 October. www.mckinsey.com/industries/electric-power-and-natural-gas/our-
insights/renewable-energy-development-in-a-net-zero-world 

61 Ibid.

62 Kane, M.K. and Gil, S. (2022) ‘Green hydrogen: A key investment for the energy transition’. World
Bank Blogs, 23 June. https://blogs.worldbank.org/ppps/green-hydrogen-key-investment-
energy-transition 

63  Liou, J. (2021) ‘What are small modular reactors (SMRs)?’ International Atomic Energy Agency, 4
November. www.iaea.org/newscenter/news/what-are-small-modular-reactors-smrs 

64 Ibid.

65  Deign, J. (2021) ‘Nuclear: These countries are investing in small modular reactors’. World
Economic Forum, 13 January. www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/01/buoyant-global-outlook-for-
small-modular-reactors-2021 

66  PwC (2022) ‘Gigafactories and raw materials: The key to successful battery EV adoption’. www.
strategyand.pwc.com/de/en/industries/energy-utilities/gigafactories-and-raw-materials.html 

67 Ibid.

68 Ibid.

69 Ibid.

70 World Economic Forum (2022) ‘Target true zero: Unlocking sustainable battery and hydrogen-
powered flight’. www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Target_True_Zero_Aviation_ROUND_2022.pdf

71  Radulovic, J. (2022) ‘A solar power station in space? Here’s how it would work – and help us 
get to
net zero’. World Economic Forum, 23 March. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/03/a-solar-power-
station-in-space-here-s-how-it-would-work-and-the-benefits-it-could-bring 

72  Brown, H. (2022) ‘A massive floating solar farm orbiting in space could soon be reality: Here’s 
how
it would work’. EuroNews.Green, 18 October. www.euronews.com/green/2022/10/13/scientists-
dream-up-a-massive-floating-solar-farm-in-space-heres-how-it-would-work 

73  Hemingway Jaynes, C. (2022) ‘How solar farms in space might beam electricity to earth’.
EcoWatch, 2 November. www.ecowatch.com/solar-farms-space.html 

74  Brussard, P.F., Reed, J.M. and Tracy, C.R. (1998) ‘Ecosystem management: What is it really?’
Landscape and Urban Planning, 40(1–3): 9–20. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/
S0169204697000947

75  PwC (n.d.) ‘Climate change and resource scarcity’. www.pwc.co.uk/issues/megatrends/climate-
change-and-resource-scarcity.html (retrieved 18 November 2022)

76  Fleming, S. (2020) ‘What is green finance and why is it important?’ World Economic Forum, 9
November. www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/11/what-is-green-finance

77 International Energy Agency (2022) ‘World energy investment 2022’. June. www.iea.org/reports/
world-energy-investment-2022 

78  Camarate, J. et al. (2022) ‘Middle East green finance: A US$2 trillion opportunity’. PwC. www.
strategyand.pwc.com/m1/en/strategic-foresight/sector-strategies/financial-services/middle-
east-green-finance/middle-east-green-finance.pdf 

79  Aldroub, M. (2022) ‘Oman sets 2050 goal to achieve net-zero carbon emissions’. The National,
11 October. www.thenationalnews.com/gulf-news/oman/2022/10/11/oman-sets-2050-goal-to-
achieve-net-zero-carbon-emissions

80  PwC (2022) ‘Reimagining our region through ESG: The 2022 Middle East report’. www.pwc.com/


m1/en/esg/documents/esg-middle-east-survey-report.pdf 

81 Ibid.

82  Venditti, B. (2022) ‘This chart shows the impact rising urbanization will have on the world’. 
World
Economic Forum, 26 April. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/global-urbanization-material-
consumption

83 Ibid.

84 Ibid.

85 Ibid.

86 Ibid.

87 Research and Markets (2022) ‘Global $6,965 billion smart cities market analysis &
forecasts to 2030’. GlobeNewswire, 19 April. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-relea
se/2022/04/19/2424328/28124/en/Global-6-965-Billion-Smart-Cities-Market-Analysis-
Forecasts-to-2030-Increasing-Investment-in-Sustainable-and-Green-Technologies-
Contributing-to-Smart-Cities-Around-the-World.html

88  Galal, H., Wimmer, H. and Khurana, A. (2022) ‘Smart cities: Mobility ecosystems for a more
sustainable future’. PwC, 14 September. www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/reinventing-the-future/
smart-mobility-hub/sustainable-mobility-ecosystems-in-smart-cities.html 

89 Ibid.

90  Acumen Research and Consulting (2022) ‘Investor ESG software market size CAGR of 15.7%
and reach USD 2,011 million revenue by 2030 owing to increasing government initiatives to
endorse ESG investments’. GlobeNewswire, 29 August. www.globenewswire.com/news-
release/2022/08/29/2505636/0/en/Investor-ESG-Software-Market-Size-CAGR-of-15-7-And-
Reach-USD-2-011-Million-Revenue-By-2030-Owing-to-Increasing-Government-Initiatives-To-
Endorse-ESG-Investments.html 

91  Research and Markets (2022) ‘Global environmental consulting services market report 2022–
2026: COVID-19 expedites decarbonization efforts’. GlobeNewswire, 6 June. www.globenewswire.
com/en/news-release/2022/06/06/2456448/28124/en/Global-Environmental-Consulting-
Services-Market-Report-2022-2026-COVID-19-Expedites-Decarbonization-Efforts.html 

92  Climate Action Tracker (n.d.) ‘CAT net zero target evaluations’. 
https://climateactiontracker.org/
global/cat-net-zero-target-evaluations (retrieved 5 December 2022)

93  Perez, L. et al. (2022) ‘Does ESG really matter – and why?’ McKinsey & Company, 10 August. www.
mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/does-esg-really-matter-and-why

94  Deloitte (2022) ‘Navigating the ESG journey in 2022 and beyond’. January. www2.deloitte.com/
us/en/pages/center-for-board-effectiveness/articles/navigating-the-esg-journey-in-2022-and-
beyond.html

95  PwC (2022) ‘Reimagining our region through ESG: The 2022 Middle East report’. www.pwc.com/
m1/en/esg/documents/esg-middle-east-survey-report.pdf

96  Harkavy, R. (2022) ‘Court can hear “borderless” blockchain asset disputes’. Commercial Dispute
Resolution. 26 October. https://iclg.com/cdr/litigation/18269-court-can-hear-borderless-
blockchain-asset-disputes

97 PwC (2021) ‘The gig economy in the EU and the UK: PwC report 2021’. www.pwc.co.uk/services/
legal/insights/gig-economy-eu-uk-2021.html

98  Moreau, P. (2022) ‘Gig economy report 2022’. PwC, 30 June. www.pwclegal.be/en/news/gig-
economy-report-2022.html

99  Adăscăliţei, D. (2022) ‘Regulating platform work in Europe: A work in progress’. Social Europe, 
10

October. https://socialeurope.eu/regulating-platform-work-in-europe-a-work-in-progress

100 Patentscope (n.d.) ‘National collections: Data coverage’. World Intellectual Property 
Organization.
https://patentscope.wipo.int/search/en/help/data_coverage.jsf (retrieved 11 November 2022)

101 Ibid.

102 Patentscope (n.d.) ‘National collections: Data coverage’. World Intellectual Property 
Organization.
https://patentscope.wipo.int/search/en/help/data_coverage.jsf (retrieved 25 January 2023)

103 Ibid.

104 Bar Am, J. et al. (2022) ‘How to prepare for a sustainable future along the value chain’. 
McKinsey &
Company, 20 January. www.mckinsey.com/industries/consumer-packaged-goods/our-insights/
how-to-prepare-for-a-sustainable-future-along-the-value-chain

105 Ibid.

106 Goodyear, E. (2022) ‘Three consumer trends impacting CPG companies in 2022’. Mastercard.
www.mastercardservices.com/en/reports-insights/three-consumer-trends-impacting-cpg-
companies-2022

107 European Commission (2022) ‘Digital economy and society index 2022: Overall progress but
digital skills, SMEs and 5G networks lag behind’. 28 July. https://ec.europa.eu/commission/
presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_4560

108 United Arab Emirates Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence (n.d.) ‘UAE Digital Economy
Strategy’. Digital Economy and Remote Work Applications Office. https://ai.gov.ae/digital-
economy (retrieved 9 November 2022)

109 Iftahy, A. et al. (2022) ‘How to win in the Gulf’s dynamic consumer and retail sectors’. 
McKinsey &
Company, 7 September. www.mckinsey.com/industries/consumer-packaged-goods/our-insights/
how-to-win-in-the-gulfs-dynamic-consumer-and-retail-sectors

110 United Nations (2022) ‘World population prospects 2022: Summary of results’. www.un.org/
development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/wpp2022_summary_of_
results.pdf

111  International Labour Organization (2022) ‘World social protection report 2020–22’. www.ilo.org/
wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_protect/---soc_sec/documents/publication/wcms_817572.pdf

112  Reuil, T. (2022) ‘I believe the future of remote work is borderless and inclusive – here’s how 
we get


there’. World Economic Forum, 14 September. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/09/inclusivity-
remote-work-borderless-workforce

113 Growmotely (2021) ‘Where, why and how we’re working remotely’. www.growmotely.com/report

114  Smits, J. (2022) ‘Debunking 5 myths about remote work and digital nomads’. EY, 23 May. www.
ey.com/en_lb/workforce/debunking-workforce-mobility-myths

115 Kenneth Research (2022) ‘Global brain computer interface (BCI) market to accelerate backed
by the growing elderly population worldwide; market to grow with a CAGR of 12.54% during

2021–2030 and generate a revenue of USD 4483.93 million by 2030’. GlobeNewswire, 10 January.
www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2022/01/10/2363913/0/en/Global-Brain-Computer-
Interface-BCI-Market-to-Accelerate-Backed-by-the-Growing-Elderly-Population-Worldwide-
Market-to-Grow-with-a-CAGR-of-12-54-During-2021-2030-and-Generate-a-Reve.html

116 US Government Accountability Office (2022) ‘Science and tech spotlight: Brain–computer
interfaces’. www.gao.gov/products/gao-22-106118

117 Ibid.

118 Neuralink (n.d.) ‘Understanding the brain’. https://neuralink.com/science (retrieved 23 November
2022)

119  Synchron (n.d.) ‘Unlocking the natural highways of the brain’. https://synchron.com (retrieved 
23
November 2022)

120 Vance, A. (2022) ‘Brain–computer interface startup implants first device in US patient’.
Bloomberg, 18 July. www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-07-18/brain-computer-interface-
company-implants-new-type-of-device

121  International Data Corporation (2022) ‘Wearables growth faces challenges through 2022,
according to IDC tracker’. 19 September. www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS49689122

122 McKinsey & Company (2022) ‘McKinsey Technology Trends Outlook 2022: Immersive-reality
technologies’. August 2022. www.mckinsey.com/spContent/bespoke/tech-trends/pdfs/
mckinsey-tech-trends-outlook-2022-immersive-reality.pdf

123 International Data Corporation (2021) ‘Spend on emerging device categories – including
wearables, AR/VR headsets, and smart home – will see continued robust growth, according to
IDC’.  4 October. www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS48284221

124 Faruki, A. et al. (2022) ‘Can automakers leverage the manufacturing metaverse to enhance the
vehicle life-cycle journey?’ Kearney, 9 September. www.kearney.com/automotive/article/-/
insights/can-automakers-leverage-the-manufacturing-metaverse-to-enhance-the-vehicle-life-
cycle-journey

125 Borden, K. and Herlt, A. (2022) ‘Digital twins: What could they do for your business?’ McKinsey
& Company, 3 October. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-insights/digital-twins-
what-could-they-do-for-your-business

126  Brossard, M. et al. (2022) ‘Digital twins: The art of the possible in product development and
beyond’. McKinsey & Company, 28 April. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-
insights/digital-twins-the-art-of-the-possible-in-product-development-and-beyond

127 Brossard, M. et al. (2022) ‘Digital twins: The art of the possible in product development and
beyond’. McKinsey & Company, 28 April. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-
insights/digital-twins-the-art-of-the-possible-in-product-development-and-beyond

128 Bale, A.S. et al. ‘A comprehensive study on metaverse and its impact on humans’. Hindawi, 2022:
3247060. https://downloads.hindawi.com/journals/ahci/2022/3247060.pdf

129 Ibid.

130 Baker, K.R. (2022) ‘Designing an inclusive metaverse’. Harvard Business Review, 22 September.
https://hbr.org/2022/09/designing-an-inclusive-metaverse

131 Bianzino, N.M. (2022) ‘Metaverse: Could creating a virtual world build a more sustainable one?’
EY, 7 April. www.ey.com/en_hr/digital/metaverse-could-creating-a-virtual-world-build-a-more-
sustainable-one

132 Lin, P., Abney, K. and Bekey, G. (2011) ‘Robot ethics: Mapping the issues for a mechanized
world’. Artificial Intelligence, 175(5–6): 942–9. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0004370211000178

133 Yuan, L. et al. (2022) ‘In situ bidirectional human–robot value alignment’. Science Robotics, 
7(68).
www.science.org/doi/10.1126/scirobotics.abm4183 (requires subscription)

134 Masterson, V. (2022) ‘From medicine drones to coral cleaners: 3 “jobs of the future” that are
already here’. World Economic Forum, 25 May. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/05/robots-help-
humans-future-jobs

135 Masterson, V. (2022) ‘From robotic dogs to magnetic slime: 7 ways robots are helping humans’.
World Economic Forum, 8 April. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/robots-ai-help-humans-at-
work

136 Zamecnik, A. (2022) ‘Nanorobots: Small solutions to big delivery problems’. Pharmaceutical
Technology, 26 August. www.pharmaceutical-technology.com/analysis/nanorobots-small-
solutions-to-big-delivery-problems

137 Masterson, V. (2022) ‘From medicine drones to coral cleaners: 3 “jobs of the future” that are
already here’. World Economic Forum, 25 May. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/05/robots-help-
humans-future-jobs

138 Diligent Robots (n.d.) ‘Care is a team effort’. www.diligentrobots.com/moxi (retrieved 22 
November
2022)

139 Masterson, V. (2022) ‘From robotic dogs to magnetic slime: 7 ways robots are helping humans’.
World Economic Forum, 8 April. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/robots-ai-help-humans-at-
work

140 Anandan, T.M. (2021) ‘Robots digging deep underground, finding new depths’. Plant Engineering,
23 March. www.plantengineering.com/articles/robots-digging-deep-underground

141  Heiber, I. and Meylan, J. (2022) ‘How digital tools can move modern surgery toward a new era 
of


patients’ experiences’. EY, 20 June. www.ey.com/en_ch/strategy/how-digital-tools-can-move-
modern-surgery-toward-a-new-era-of-patients-experiences

142 Intuitive (n.d.) ‘Intuitive for patients: Robotic-assisted surgery as a minimally invasive 
option’.
www.davincisurgery.com (retrieved 15 November 2022)

143 Mayor, N., Coppola, A. and Challacombe, B. (2022) ‘Past, present and future of surgical 
robotics’.
Trends Urology & Men’s Health, 13: 7–10. https://doi.org/10.1002/tre.834

144 Helfrich, T. (2022) ‘Why robotics and artificial intelligence are the future of mankind’. 
Forbes,
31 May. www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/05/31/why-robotics-and-artificial-
intelligence-are-the-future-of-mankind

145 Intel (n.d.) ‘Robots and artificial intelligence overview’. www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/
robotics/artificial-intelligence-robotics.html (retrieved 22 November 2022)

146 Henschel, A., Laban, G. and Cross, E.S. (2021) ‘What makes a robot social? A review of social
robots from science fiction to a home or hospital near you’. Current Robotics Reports, 2: 9–19.
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s43154-020-00035-0

147 Savage, N. (2022) ‘Robots rise to meet the challenge of caring for old people’. Nature, 601: 
S8–10
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-00072-z

148 Research and Markets (2022) ‘Outlook on the social robots global market to 2027: Increasing
product demand in public services is positively impacting growth’. GlobeNewswire, 23 August.
www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2022/08/23/2503002/28124/en/Outlook-on-the-
Social-Robots-Global-Market-to-2027-Increasing-Product-Demand-in-Public-Services-is-
Positively-Impacting-Growth.html

149 Report Linker (2022) ‘Emotion detection and recognition global market report 2022’.
GlobeNewswire, 12 September. www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2022/09/12/2513931/0/
en/Emotion-Detection-And-Recognition-Global-Market-Report-2022.html

150 Simonton, D.K. (2022) ‘Quantifying creativity: Can measures span the spectrum?’ Dialogues in
Clinical Neuroscience, 14(1): 100–4. www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.31887/DCNS.2012.14.1/
dsimonton

151 Ibid.

152 G20 (2021) ‘Creative economy 2030: Inclusive and resilient creative economy for sustainable
development and recovery’. September. www.g20-insights.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/
TF5_CREATIVE_ECONOMY_2030-_INCLUSIVE_AND_RESILIENT_CREATIVE_ECONOMY_FOR_
SUSTAINABLE_DEVELOPMENT_AND_RECOVERY.pdf

153 Boyles, M. (2022) ‘The importance of creativity in business’. Harvard Business School, 25 
January.
https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/importance-of-creativity-in-business

154 Kalyani, A. (2022) ‘The creativity decline: Evidence from US patents’. July. https://
scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:t7sMMF7WcikJ:scholar.google.
com/+creativity+and+growth&hl=en&as_sdt=0,5&as_ylo=2022

155 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (2022) ‘2021/2022 global report: Opportunity amid disruption’.
www.gemconsortium.org/reports/latest-global-report

156 Ibid.

157 World Health Organization (2022) ‘WHO highlights urgent need to transform mental health and
mental health care’. 17 June. www.who.int/news/item/17-06-2022-who-highlights-urgent-need-
to-transform-mental-health-and-mental-health-care

158 Fox, C. (2021) ‘These are the top 10 innovations in mental health’. World Economic Forum, 14
September. www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/09/these-are-the-top-10-innovations-tackling-
mental-ill-health

159 KPMG (2021) ‘Opportunities and challenges in an evolving market: 2021 healthcare and life
sciences investment outlook’. https://assets.kpmg/content/dam/kpmg/tw/pdf/2021/03/2021-
healthcare-investment-outlook.pdf

160 Evers, M. et al. (2022) ‘Better data for better therapies: The case for building health data
platforms’. McKinsey & Company, 15 April. www.mckinsey.com/industries/life-sciences/our-
insights/better-data-for-better-therapies-the-case-for-building-health-data-platforms

161  RMIT University (n.d.) ‘The future of learning and teaching: Big changes ahead for education’.
www.rmit.edu.au/study-with-us/education/discover-education/the-future-of-learning-and-
teaching-big-changes-ahead-for-education (retrieved 22 November 2022)

162 UNESCO (n.d.) ‘Futures of education: A new social contract’. https://en.unesco.org/
futuresofeducation (retrieved 22 November 2022)

163 Lightcast (2022) ‘Workers wanted, worldwide: Strategies to succeed in the global demographic
drought’. www.datocms-assets.com/62658/1663096076-workers-wanted-worldwide.pdf

164 International Labour Organization (2022) ‘Global employment trends for youth 2022: Investing
in transforming futures for young people’. www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---dgreports/---
dcomm/---publ/documents/publication/wcms_853321.pdf

165 Ibid.

166 ASDAABCW (2022) ‘Arab Youth Survey: Charting a new course – 14th annual edition’. http://
arabyouthsurvey.com/wp-content/uploads/whitepaper/ays-2022-top-findings-presentation-en.
pdf

167 Lorenz, T. et al. (2022) ‘3D food printing applications related to dysphagia: A narrative 
review’.
Foods, 11: 1789. www.mdpi.com/2304-8158/11/12/1789/pdf

168 Report Linker (2022) ‘3D food printing market … global analysis of market size, share & trends 
for
2019–2020 and forecasts to 2030’. GlobeNewswire, 16 June. www.globenewswire.com/news-
release/2022/06/16/2464060/0/en/3D-Food-Printing-Market-by-Ingredient-By-Vertical-and-
Region-Global-Analysis-of-Market-Size-Share-Trends-for-2019-2020-and-Forecasts-to-2030.
html

169 PwC (2022) ‘The novel food market: Key trends and considerations’. www.pwc.com/it/it/
publications/assets/docs/pwc-the-novel-food-market.pdf


170 McKinsey & Company (2022) ‘Make room for alternative proteins: What it takes to build a new
sector’. McKinsey Digital, 25 March. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey-digital/our-
insights/make-room-for-alternative-proteins-what-it-takes-to-build-a-new-sector

171  PwC (2022) ‘The novel food market: Key trends and considerations’. www.pwc.com/it/it/
publications/assets/docs/pwc-the-novel-food-market.pdf

172 Ibid.

173 Iftahy, A. et al. (2022) ‘How to win in the Gulf’s dynamic consumer and retail sectors’. 
McKinsey &
Company, 7 September. www.mckinsey.com/industries/consumer-packaged-goods/our-insights/
how-to-win-in-the-gulfs-dynamic-consumer-and-retail-sectors

174 McKinsey & Company (2018) ‘Precision medicine: Opening the aperture’. www.mckinsey.com/~/
media/mckinsey/industries/pharmaceuticals%20and%20medical%20products/our%20insights/
precision%20medicine%20opening%20the%20aperture/precision-medicine-opening-the-
aperture.pdf

175 Tohme, W. (n.d.) ‘How the GCC can be ready for the personalized medicine wave of the future’.
PwC. www.strategyand.pwc.com/m1/en/articles/2019/how-gcc-be-ready-for-personalized-
medicine.html (retrieved 23 November 2022)

176 Ibid.

177 Gedin, F. et al. (2020) ‘Productivity losses among people with back pain and among population-
based references: A register-based study in Sweden’. BMJ Open, 10(8): e036638. https://
bmjopen.bmj.com/content/10/8/e036638

178 Ibid.

179 International Association for the Study of Pain (2021) ‘The global burden of low back pain’. 
www.
iasp-pain.org/resources/fact-sheets/the-global-burden-of-low-back-pain

180 Polson, M. et al. (2020) ‘Concomitant medical conditions and total cost of care in patients with
migraine: A real-world claims analysis’. American Journal of Managed Care 26(1): S3–7. https://
cdn.sanity.io/files/0vv8moc6/ajmc/6201a20b7ee5392236a4d15b2190558f49a32d7e.pdf/AJMC_
AD470_Migraine_article%25201.pdf

181  Gebreyes, K. et al. (2021) 'Breaking the cost curve'. Deloitte Insights, 9 February. 
www2.deloitte.
com/xe/en/insights/industry/health-care/future-health-care-spending.html 

182 Gfrerer, L. et al. (2021) ‘Muscle fascia changes in patients with occipital neuralgia, headache,
or migraine’. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 147(1): 176–80. https://journals.lww.com/

plasreconsurg/Fulltext/2021/01000/Muscle_Fascia_Changes_in_Patients_with_Occipital.34.aspx

183 Kirilova-Doneva, M. and Pashkouleva, D. (2022) ‘The effects of age and sex on the elastic
mechanical properties of human abdominal fascia’. Clinical Biomechanics, 92: 105591. www.
clinbiomech.com/article/S0268-0033(22)00021-3/fulltext (requires subscription)

184 Johns Hopkins Medicine (n.d.) ‘Muscle pain: It may actually be your fascia’. 
www.hopkinsmedicine.
org/health/wellness-and-prevention/muscle-pain-it-may-actually-be-your-fascia (retrieved 6
November 2022)

185 Verter, F. (2020) ‘Percentage of births banking cord blood by country’. Parents’ Guide to Cord
Blood, January. https://parentsguidecordblood.org/en/news/percentage-births-banking-cord-
blood-country

186 Ibid.

187 WMDA (2022) ‘WMDA global trends report 2021: Summary slides’. https://wmda.info/wp-content/
uploads/2022/07/CORRECTED-21042022-GTR-2021-Summary-slides-002.pdf

188 Ibid.

189 Zhang, S. (2022) ‘Don’t pay for cord-blood banking’. The Atlantic, 17 October. www.theatlantic.
com/health/archive/2022/10/cord-blood-banking-transplant-cost-worth-it/671765

190 Verter, F. (2020) ‘Percentage of births banking cord blood by country’. Parents’ Guide to Cord
Blood, January. https://parentsguidecordblood.org/en/news/percentage-births-banking-cord-
blood-country

191  American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (n.d.) ‘FAQs: Cord blood banking’. www.
acog.org/womens-health/faqs/cord-blood-banking (retrieved 6 November 2022)

192 Yongqiang, D. et al. (2021) ‘Nanotechnology shaping stem cell therapy: Recent advances,
application, challenges, and future outlook’. Biomedicine & Pharmacotherapy, 137: 111236. www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0753332221000214

193 Ibid.

194 Brown, K., Rao, M.S. and Brown, H.L. (2019) ‘The future state of newborn stem cell banking’.
Journal of Clinical Medicine, 8(1): 117. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6352006

195 Smith, L.M. et al. (2021) ‘The Human Proteoform Project: Defining the human proteome’.
ScienceAdvances, 7(46). www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.abk0734

196 Human Proteome Organization (2022) ‘HPP progress to date (phase I)’. March. https://hupo.org/
hpp-progress-to-date

197 Ahlgren, N. (2021) ‘What is a protein? A biologist explains’. The Conversation, 13 January. 
https://
theconversation.com/what-is-a-protein-a-biologist-explains-152870

198 Bailey, R. (2020) ‘Proteins in the cell’. ThoughtCo., 23 January. www.thoughtco.com/protein-
function-373550

199 Callaway, E. (2021) ‘DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins’. Nature, 
22 July.
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02025-4

200 Tunyasuvunakool, K. et al. (2021) ‘Highly accurate protein structure prediction for the human
proteome’. Nature, 596: 590–6. www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03828-1

201 Callaway, E. (2021) ‘DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins’. Nature, 
22 July.
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02025-4

202 Ibid.

203 Schmidt, C. (2021) ‘Investments in proteomics ready for payback: Second Swedish Proteomics


Society symposium predicts returns’. Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News, 3 February.
www.genengnews.com/gen-40/investments-in-proteomics-ready-for-payback

204 Smith, L.M. et al. (2021) ‘The Human Proteoform Project: Defining the human proteome’.
ScienceAdvances, 7(46). www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.abk0734

205 Northwestern University (2022) ‘After the genome: A brief history of proteomics’. 31 August. 
www.
clp.northwestern.edu/2022/08/31/after-the-genome-a-brief-history-of-proteomics

206 Ahlgren, N. (2021) ‘What is a protein? A biologist explains’. The Conversation, 13 January. 
https://
theconversation.com/what-is-a-protein-a-biologist-explains-152870

207 Callaway, E. (2021) ‘DeepMind’s AI predicts structures for a vast trove of proteins’. Nature, 
22 July.
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02025-4

208 Ahlgren, N. (2021) ‘What is a protein? A biologist explains’. The Conversation, 13 January. 
https://
theconversation.com/what-is-a-protein-a-biologist-explains-152870

209 Tucker, J.B. and Hooper, C. (2006) ‘Protein engineering: Security implications – the increasing
ability to manipulate protein toxins for hostile purposes has prompted calls for regulation’. EMBO
Reports, 7: S14–17. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1490303

210 World Health Organisation (2022) ‘World health statistics’. www.who.int/data/gho/data/themes/
world-health-statistics

211 World Health Organisation (2021) ‘Accelerating progress towards the health-related SDGs in a 
time
of crisis: Solutions for an equitable and resilient recovery’. 6 July. www.who.int/news-room/events/
detail/2021/07/06/default-calendar/2021-united-nations-high-level-political-forum-who-side-
event-accelerating-progress-towards-the-health-related-sdgs-in-a-time-of-crisis-solutions-for-
an-equitable-and-resilient-recovery

212 Ibid.

213 World Health Organisation (2022) ‘COVID-19 has caused major disruptions and backlogs in health
care, new WHO study finds’. 20 July. www.who.int/europe/news/item/20-07-2022-covid-19-has-
caused-major-disruptions-and-backlogs-in-health-care--new-who-study-finds

214 Tomorrow Today (2019) ‘The guide to upgrading an MRI scanner’. www.gehealthcare.com/-/
jssmedia/gehc/us/files/products/magnetic-resonance-imaging/mri-upgrades-and-lifecycle-
guide.pdf?rev=-1

215 Kamani, V. (n.d.) ‘5 use cases of AI reducing the cost of medical imaging’. Arkenea. https://
arkenea.com/blog/how-ai-can-help-reduce-cost-of-medical-imaging (retrieved 10 November
2022)

216 Mohan, A. et al. (2021) ‘Telesurgery and robotics: An improved and efficient era’. Cureus, 
13(3):
e14124. www.cureus.com/articles/54068-telesurgery-and-robotics-an-improved-and-efficient-
era

217 Kaplon, H. et al. (2022) ‘Antibodies to watch in 2022’. MAbs, 14(1): 2014296. www.tandfonline.
com/doi/full/10.1080/19420862.2021.2014296

218 Ibid.

219 Abdelhalim, H. et al. (2022) ‘Artificial intelligence, healthcare, clinical genomics, and
pharmacogenomics approaches in precision medicine’. Frontier Genetics, 6 July. www.frontiersin.
org/articles/10.3389/fgene.2022.929736/full

220 Skyquest (2022) ‘Global precision medicine market generate revenue of $146.57 billion: $2.68
billion invested in R&D activities in 2021 and is projected to expand to $5 billion by 2028’.
GlobeNewswire, 23 August. www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2022/08/23/2503224/0/en/
Global-Precision-Medicine-Market-Generate-Revenue-of-146-57-billion-2-68-Billion-Invested-

in-R-D-Activities-in-2021-and-is-Projected-to-Expand-to-5-Billion-by-2028-SkyQuest.html

221 United Nations (2018) ‘2018 revision of world urbanization prospects’. 
https://population.un.org/
wup

222 United Nations Environment Programme (2022) ‘Frontiers 2022: Noise, blazes and mismatches’.
www.unep.org/resources/frontiers-2022-noise-blazes-and-mismatches

223 Ibid.

224 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2022) ‘What noises cause hearing loss?’ 8 November.
www.cdc.gov/nceh/hearing_loss/what_noises_cause_hearing_loss.html

225 International Labour Organisations (n.d.) ‘Your health and safety at work: Noise at work’ 
(training
module). https://training.itcilo.org/actrav_cdrom2/en/osh/noise/nomain.htm (retrieved 10
November 2022)

226 Osmun, R. (2021) ‘How sound impacts your sleep cycle’. AmeriSleep, 23 April. https://amerisleep.
com/blog/sound-impacts-sleep-cycle

227 Walker, E.D. (2022) ‘If all the vehicles in the world were to convert to electric, would it be 
quieter?’
The Conversation, 1 August. https://theconversation.com/if-all-the-vehicles-in-the-world-were-
to-convert-to-electric-would-it-be-quieter-179359

228 European Commission (n.d.) ‘Noise’. https://environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/noise_en (retrieved
10 November 2022)

229 Sivakumaran, K. et al. (2022) ‘Impact of noise exposure on risk of developing stress-related 
health
effects related to the cardiovascular system: A systematic review and meta-analysis’. Noise &
Health, 24(114): 107–29. www.noiseandhealth.org/article.asp?issn=1463-1741;year=2022;volume=
24;issue=114;spage=107;epage=129;aulast=Sivakumaran

230 Miller, C. and Howard, J. (2022) ‘How trauma affects kids in school’. Child Mind Institute, 17
August. https://childmind.org/article/how-trauma-affects-kids-school

231 Zucker, R. (2022) ‘Trauma: A hidden contributor to overwhelm at work’. Forbes, 22 April. www.
forbes.com/sites/rebeccazucker/2022/04/22/trauma-a-hidden-contributor-to-overwhelm-at-
work

232 World Health Organisation (2022) ‘Child maltreatment’. 19 September. www.who.int/news-room/
fact-sheets/detail/child-maltreatment

233 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2022) ‘Fast facts: Preventing child abuse and 
neglect’.


6 April. www.cdc.gov/violenceprevention/childabuseandneglect/fastfact.html

234 World Health Organisation (2022) ‘Child maltreatment’. 19 September. www.who.int/news-room/
fact-sheets/detail/child-maltreatment

235 Youssef, N.A. et al. (2018) ‘The effects of trauma, with or without PTSD, on the 
transgenerational
DNA methylation alterations in human offsprings’. Brain sciences, 8(5): 83. https://doi.
org/10.3390/brainsci8050083

236 Lebow, H. (2021) ‘Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)’. PsychCentral, 20 June. https://
psychcentral.com/ptsd/ptsd-overview

237 Tull, M. (2020) ‘Virtual reality exposure therapy can help PTSD’. Very Well Mind, 29 June. www.
verywellmind.com/virtual-reality-exposure-therapy-vret-2797340

238 Integrative Life Center (n.d.) ‘What are the signs of repressed childhood trauma in adults’. 
https://
integrativelifecenter.com/signs-of-repressed-childhood-trauma-in-adults (retrieved 10 November
2022)

239 Aas, M. et al. (2022) ‘Childhood trauma is nominally associated with elevated cortisol 
metabolism
in severe mental disorder’. Front Psychiatry, 11: 391. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/
PMC7247816

240 Sheldon-Dean, H. (2022) ‘2022 children’s mental health report: Treating symptoms of
trauma in children and teenagers’. Child Mind Institute. https://childmind.org/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/Trauma_Report_2022.pdf

241 Transforma Insights (2022) ‘Global IoT connections to hit 29.4 billion in 2030’. 25 July. 
https://
transformainsights.com/news/global-iot-connections-294

242 Henriksen, A. et al. (2022) ‘Dataset of fitness trackers and smartwatches to measuring physical
activity in research’. BMC Research Notes, 15: 258. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13104-022-06146-5

243 Vijayan, V. et al. (2021) ‘Review of wearable devices and data collection considerations for
connected health’. Sensors, 21(16): 5589. https://doi.org/10.3390/s21165589

244 Dienlin, T. and Johannes, N. (2022) ‘The impact of digital technology use on adolescent well-
being’. Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience, 22(2), 135–42. www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.31887/
DCNS.2020.22.2/tdienlin

245 Howarth, J. (2022) ‘Alarming average screen time statistics (2022)’. Exploding Topics, 21
September. https://explodingtopics.com/blog/screen-time-stats

246 Ibid.

247 Ibid.

248 Google Trends (n.d.) ‘Digital detox’. https://trends.google.com/trends/
explore?date=all&q=digital%20detox (retrieved 10 November 2022)

249 Google Search (n.d.) ‘Digital detox’. (retrieved 10 November 2022)

250 Ibid.

251 Williams, H. (2019) ‘Business ideas for 2019: Digital detox’. Startups, 25 January. 
https://startups.
co.uk/business-ideas/digital-detox

252 Umejima, K. et al. (2021) ‘Paper notebooks vs. mobile devices: Brain activation differences
during memory retrieval’. Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience, 19 March. www.frontiersin.org/
articles/10.3389/fnbeh.2021.634158/full

253 Pandya, A. and Lodha, P. (2021) ‘Social connectedness, excessive screen time during COVID-19
and mental health: A review of current evidence’. Frontiers Human Dynamics, 22 July. www.
frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fhumd.2021.684137/full

254 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (n.d.) ‘Sleep and chronic disease’. 
www.cdc.gov/sleep/
about_sleep/chronic_disease.html (retrieved 11 November 2022)

255 Ibid.

256 Sim, J. et al. (2021) ‘The association between the number of consecutive night shifts and 
insomnia
among shift workers: A multi-center study’. Frontiers in Public Health, 17 November. www.
frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpubh.2021.761279/full

257 Knutson, K. et al. (2017) ‘The National Sleep Foundation’s Sleep Health Index’. Sleep Health, 19
June. www.sleephealthjournal.org/article/S2352-7218(17)30102-X/fulltext

258 Ibid.

259 Ibid.

260 Polaris Market Research (2022) ‘Sleeping aids market share size … 2022–2030’. June. www.
polarismarketresearch.com/industry-analysis/sleeping-aids-market

261 Ibid.

262 Future Market Insights (2022) ‘Wearable sleep tracker market-sales growth snapshot’. June. www.
futuremarketinsights.com/reports/wearable-sleep-trackers-market

263 Curtis, G. (2021) ‘Your life in numbers’. Dreams: Sleep Matters Club, 29 September. www.dreams.
co.uk/sleep-matters-club/your-life-in-numbers-infographic

264 Panagos, A. (2021) ‘How do sleep hormones affect my body?’ Calmmoment, 15 January. www.
calmmoment.com/wellbeing/sleep-hormones

265 Ibid.

266 Pastore, R. (2020) ‘The neurochemistry of sleep’. PowerOnPowerOff, 13 May. https://
poweronpoweroff.com/blogs/longform/the-neurochemistry-of-sleep

267 Oroz, R. (2021) ‘Transcranial magnetic stimulation therapeutic applications on sleep and 
insomnia:
a review’. Sleep Science and Practice, 5(3). https://sleep.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/
s41606-020-00057-9

268 Suni, E. (2022) ‘How to design the ideal bedroom for sleep’. Sleep Foundation, 20 April. www.
sleepfoundation.org/bedroom-environment/how-to-design-the-ideal-bedroom-for-sleep

269 Frost, A. (2022) ‘Redesign your bedroom for a better night’s sleep’. Popular Science, 2 
February.
www.popsci.com/diy/bedroom-design-better-sleep


270 International Electrotechnical Commission (n.d.) ‘Electromagnetic compatibility’. www.iec.ch/emc
(retrieved 11 November 2022)

271 Devi, N. and Ray, S.S. (2022) ‘Electromagnetic interference cognizance and potential of
advanced polymer composites toward electromagnetic interference shielding: A review’.
Polymer Engineering and Science, 62(3): 591–621. https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.25876 (requires
subscription)

272 Ibid.

273 Driessen, S. et al. (2019) ‘Electromagnetic interference in cardiac electronic implants caused 
by
novel electrical appliances emitting electromagnetic fields in the intermediate frequency range: A
systematic review’. Europace, 21(2): 219–29. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6365808

274 UK Government (2020) ‘Medical devices: Sources of electromagnetic interference’. 17 January.
www.gov.uk/government/publications/electromagnetic-interference-sources/electromagnetic-
interference-sources

275 Mikinka, E. and Siwak, M. (2021) ‘Recent advances in electromagnetic interference shielding
properties of carbon-fibre-reinforced polymer composites: A topical review’. Journal of Materials
Science: Materials in Electronics, 32: 24585–643. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/
s10854-021-06900-8

276 World Health Organisation (2016) ‘Radiation: Electromagnetic fields’. 4 August. www.who.int/
news-room/questions-and-answers/item/radiation-electromagnetic-fields

277 EMF-Portal (n.d.) ‘Limit values compared internationally’. www.emf-portal.org/en/cms/page/
home/more/limits/limit-values-compared-internationally (retrieved 11 November 2022)

278 World Health Organisation (n.d.) ‘Electromagnetic fields: Existence of standards and legislative
status’. www.who.int/data/gho/data/indicators/indicator-details/GHO/legislative-status
(retrieved 11 November 2022)

279 International Electrotechnical Commission (n.d.) ‘Electromagnetic compatibility’. www.iec.ch/emc
(retrieved 11 November 2022)

280 MarketsandMarkets (2022) ‘EMI shielding market by material, method, industry: Global forecast
to 2027’. October. www.reportlinker.com/p04751617/EMI-Shielding-Market-by-Component-
Method-Industry-and-Geography-Global-Forecast-to.html

281 World Health Organisation (2016) ‘Radiation: Electromagnetic fields’. 4 August. www.who.int/
news-room/questions-and-answers/item/radiation-electromagnetic-fields

282 Gryz, K. et al. (2022) ‘Complex electromagnetic issues associated with the use of electric 
vehicles
in urban transportation’. Sensors, 22(5): 1719. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8914635

283 O’Callaghan, J. (2021) ‘What is a Faraday cage?’ Live Science, 3 December. www.livescience.com/
what-is-a-faraday-cage

284 Mikinka, E. and Siwak, M. (2021) ‘Recent advances in electromagnetic interference shielding
properties of carbon-fibre-reinforced polymer composites: A topical review’. Journal of Materials
Science: Materials in Electronics, 32: 24585–643. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/
s10854-021-06900-8

285 Driessen, S. et al. (2019) ‘Electromagnetic interference in cardiac electronic implants caused 
by
novel electrical appliances emitting electromagnetic fields in the intermediate frequency range: A
systematic review’. Europace, 21(2): 219–29. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6365808

286 World Health Organisation. (n.d.) ‘GHE: Life expectancy and health life expectancy’. 
www.who.int/
data/gho/data/themes/mortality-and-global-health-estimates/ghe-life-expectancy-and-healthy-
life-expectancy (retrieved 19 November 2022)

287 United Nations (2022). ‘Data Portal: Population division’ (data for life expectancy at birth, 
life
expectancy E(x) – abridged, and life expectancy E(x) – complete). https://population.un.org/
dataportal/data/indicators/61,75,76/locations/900/start/1990/end/2022/table/pivotbyindicator

288 United Nations (2022) ‘World population prospects 2022: Summary of results. www.un.org/
development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/wpp2022_summary_of_
results.pdf

289 World Health Organisation. (n.d.) ‘GHE: Life expectancy and health life expectancy’. 
www.who.int/
data/gho/data/themes/mortality-and-global-health-estimates/ghe-life-expectancy-and-healthy-
life-expectancy (retrieved 19 November 2022)

290 Ibid.

291 Nowakowski, K. (2019) ‘There are now more people over age 65 than under five – what that means’.
National Geographic, 14 July. www.nationalgeographic.co.uk/history-and-civilisation/2019/07/
there-are-now-more-people-over-age-65-than-under-five-what-that-means

292 World Bank (2021) ‘Population ages 65 and above (% of total population)’. 
https://data.worldbank.
org/indicator/SP.POP.65UP.TO.ZS

293 Ibid.

294 Nowakowski, K. (2019) ‘There are now more people over age 65 than under five – what that means’.
National Geographic, 14 July. www.nationalgeographic.co.uk/history-and-civilisation/2019/07/
there-are-now-more-people-over-age-65-than-under-five-what-that-means

295 Abyad, A. (2021) ‘Ageing in the Middle-East and North Africa: Demographic and health trends’.
International Journal on Ageing in Developing Countries, 6(2): 112–28. https://inia.org.mt/wp-
content/uploads/2022/02/Ageing-in-the-Middle-East-and-North-Africa-Demographic-and-
Health-Trends-pg-112-118-1.pdf

296 Ibid.

297 World Bank (2021) ‘Population ages 65 and above (% of total population) – Middle East and North
Africa, Lebanon’. https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.65UP.TO.ZS?locations=ZQ-LB

298 Abyad, A. (2021) ‘Ageing in the Middle-East and North Africa: Demographic and health trends’.
International Journal on Ageing in Developing Countries, 6(2), 112–28. https://inia.org.mt/wp-
content/uploads/2022/02/Ageing-in-the-Middle-East-and-North-Africa-Demographic-and-
Health-Trends-pg-112-118-1.pdf


299 Ibid.

300 Precedence Research (2022) ‘Geriatric care services market size to hit US$ 1754.1 bn by 2030’.
GlobeNewswire, 25 May. www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2022/05/25/2450552/0/en/
Geriatric-Care-Services-Market-Size-to-Hit-US-1754-1-Bn-by-2030.html

301 Boyle, P. (2021) ‘Prescription for America’s elder boom: Every doctor learns geriatrics’. AAMC
News, 4 November. www.aamc.org/news-insights/prescription-america-s-elder-boom-every-
doctor-learns-geriatrics

302 Sora-Domenjó, C. (2022) ‘“Disrupting the empathy machine”: The power and perils of virtual
reality in addressing social issues’. Frontiers in Psychology, 26 September. www.frontiersin.org/
articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.814565/full

303 Stevens, F. and Taber, K. (2021) ‘The neuroscience of empathy and compassion in pro-social
behavior’. Neuropsychologia, 159: 107925. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/
S0028393221001767

304 Hunt, N. et al. (2022) ‘Opportunities and challenges for nanotherapeutics for the aging
population’. Frontiers in Nanotechnology, 25 January. www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/
fnano.2022.832524/full

305 Broom, D. (2022) ‘We’re spending more years in poor health than at any point in history: How
can we change this?’ WEF, 5 April. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/longer-healthier-lives-
everyone

306 PwC (2017) ‘Sizing the prize: What’s the real value of AI for your business and how can you
capitalise?’ www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/analytics/assets/pwc-ai-analysis-sizing-the-prize-
report.pdf 

307 International Data Corporation (2022) ‘IDC forecasts 18.6% compound annual growth
for the artificial intelligence market in 2022–2026’. 25 July. www.idc.com/getdoc.
jsp?containerId=prEUR249536522

308 Kaplan, M. (2022) ‘For global unicorns, it’s growth and volatility’. Practical Ecommerce, 30 
June.
www.practicalecommerce.com/for-global-unicorns-its-growth-and-volatility

309 Rosenbloom, M. (2022) ‘Startups, don’t pin your hopes on VC dry powder’. Harvard Business
Review, 18 October. https://hbr.org/2022/10/startups-dont-pin-your-hopes-on-vc-dry-powder

310 World Economic Forum (2023) ‘Davos 2023: What you need to know about jobs and skills’. 16
January. http://www.weforum.org/agenda/2023/01/future-of-work-jobs-skills/

311  World Economic Forum (2020) ‘The future of jobs report 2020’. October. www3.weforum.org/
docs/WEF_Future_of_Jobs_2020.pdf

312 Forbes Technology Council (2022) ‘15 jobs and tasks tech experts believe will be automated 
within
a decade’. Forbes, 18 February. www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/02/18/15-jobs-
and-tasks-tech-experts-believe-will-be-automated-within-a-decade/?sh=6795de35778a

313 IPSOS (2022) ‘Global opinions and expectations about artificial intelligence: A global advisor
survey’. January. www.ipsos.com/sites/default/files/ct/news/documents/2022-01/Global-
opinions-and-expectations-about-AI-2022.pdf

314 Ibid.

315 McKInsey (2021) ‘The state of AI In 2021’. https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/
Business%20Functions/McKinsey%20Analytics/Our%20Insights/Global%20survey%20The%20
state%20of%20AI%20in%202021/Global-survey-The-state-of-AI-in-2021.pdf

316 PwC (2021) ‘Responsible AI: Maturing from theory to practice’. www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/data-
and-analytics/artificial-intelligence/what-is-responsible-ai/pwc-responsible-ai-maturing-from-
theory-to-practice.pdf

317 IPSOS (2022) ‘Global opinions and expectations about artificial intelligence: A global advisor
survey’. January. www.ipsos.com/sites/default/files/ct/news/documents/2022-01/Global-
opinions-and-expectations-about-AI-2022.pdf 

318 Verma, P. (2022) ‘This world cup is wired and fueled by AI’. 21 November. www.washingtonpost.
com/technology/2022/11/21/world-cup-ai/

319 Economist Impact (2022) ‘Pushing forward: The future of AI in the Middle East and North Africa’.
https://impact.economist.com/perspectives/sites/default/files/google_ai_mena_report.pdf

320 Reiss, J. (2021) ‘Public goods’. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 21 July. 
https://plato.
stanford.edu/archives/fall2021/entries/public-goods/

321 Ibid.

322 Chin, M. (2021) ‘ What are global public goods?’. Internatioinal Monetary Fund. December. www.
imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/2021/12/Global-Public-Goods-Chin-basics

323 Faiyaz, A. (2017) ‘Privatisation of public healthcare services in the GCC: Opportunities, 
challenges
and success factors’. Arab Health, 3. www.arabhealthonline.com/magazine/en/latest-issue/3/
privatisation-of-public-healthcare-services-in-the-GCC-opportunities-challenges-and-success-
factors.html 

324 Beckers, F. and Stegemann, U. (2021) ‘A smarter way to think about public-private partnerships’.
McKinsey & Company. 10 September. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/risk-and-resilience/our-
insights/a-smarter-way-to-think-about-public-private-partnerships

325 The World Bank (2020) ‘Key issues in PPPs for the poor’. 22 October. https://ppp.worldbank.org/
public-private-partnership/key-issues-ppps-poor

326 International Cooperative Alliance (n.d.) ‘What is a cooperative?’. 
www.ica.coop/en/cooperatives/
what-is-a-cooperative (retrieved 18 January 2023)

327 International Cooperative Alliance (2018) ‘Facts and figures’. 
www.ica.coop/en/cooperatives/facts-
and-figures 

328 International Cooperative Alliance (2021) ‘World Cooperative Monitor: Exploring the cooperative
economy’. https://monitor.coop/sites/default/files/2022-01/WCM_2021_0.pdf 

329 PwC (2020) ‘The global forces shaping the future of infrastructure: Global infrastructure 
trends’.
www.pwc.com/gx/en/capital-projects-infrastructure/pdf/global-infrastructure-trends.pdf


330 Ibid.

331 Ibid.

332 World Economic Forum (2023) ‘Strengthening public-private cooperation with civil society’.
January. www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Strengthening_Public_Private_Cooperation_with_Civil_
Society_2022.pdf

333 International Labour Organization (2020) ‘Statistics on cooperatives: Concepts, classification,
work and economic contribution measurement’. www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_emp/-

--emp_ent/---coop/documents/publication/wcms_760710.pdf 

334 Dixon-Fyle, S. et al. (2020) ‘Diversity wins: How inclusion matters’. McKinsey & Company, 19 
May.
www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/diversity-and-inclusion/diversity-wins-how-inclusion-
matters 

335 Blom, T., du Plessis, Y. and Kazeroony, H.H. (2021) ‘Enabling sustainable organizational change:
A case of cognitive diversity in the automotive industry’. International Journal of Applied
Management & Technology, 21(1): 143–66. https://scholarworks.waldenu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.
cgi?article=1452&context=ijamt 

336 Bourke, J. (2018) ‘The diversity and inclusion revolution: Eight powerful truths’. Deloitte 
Review, 22
January. www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/deloitte-review/issue-22/diversity-and-inclusion-at-
work-eight-powerful-truths.html 

337 Waikar, S. (2022) ‘Think different – sometimes: Teams succeed when they balance creativity and
focus’. Stanford Business, 7 January. www.gsb.stanford.edu/insights/think-different-sometimes-
teams-succeed-when-they-balance-creativity-focus 

338 Kang, J.-K., Kim, S. and Oh, S. (2022) ‘Does board demographic diversity enhance cognitive
diversity and monitoring?’ Accounting Review. https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.
cfm?abstract_id=3438714 

339 World Population Review (n.d.) ‘Most diverse city in the world’. https://worldpopulationreview.
com/world-city-rankings/most-diverse-city-in-the-world (retrieved 17 November 2022)

340 Government of Dubai Media office (n.d.) ‘The Emirate of Dubai’. https://mediaoffice.ae/general-
information/the-emirate-of-dubai (retrieved 25 January 2023)

341 Waikar, S. (2022) ‘Think Different — Sometimes. Teams Succeed When They Balance Creativity
and Focus‘. 7 January. www.gsb.stanford.edu/insights/think-different-sometimes-teams-
succeed-when-they-balance-creativity-focus 

342 Military Leadership Diversity Commission (2009) ‘What is the relationship between
demographic diversity and cognitive diversity?’. December. https://diversity.defense.gov/
Portals/51/Documents/Resources/Commission/docs/Issue%20Papers/Paper%2004%20-%20

Relationship%20Between%20Demographic%20Diversity%20and%20Cognitive%20Diversity.pdf 

343 Frimpong, E.T. (2021) ‘Global boardroom diversity: Trends and updates from the Diligent 
Institute’.
Diligent Institute, 10 November. www.diligentinstitute.com/commentary/global-boardroom-
diversity-trends-and-updates-from-the-diligent-institute 

344 Spencer Stuart (2022) ‘2022 US Spencer Stuart Board Index’. www.spencerstuart.com/research-
and-insight/us-board-index 

345 United Nations (2022). ‘Data Portal: Population division’ (data for life expectancy at birth, 
life
expectancy E(x) – abridged, and life expectancy E(x) – complete). https://population.un.org/
dataportal/data/indicators/61,75,76/locations/900/start/1990/end/2022/table/pivotbyindicator

346 United Nations (2022) ‘World population prospects 2022: Summary of results’. www.un.org/
development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/wpp2022_summary_of_
results.pdf

347 Epstein, S. (2022) ‘Is this the end of retirement as we know it?’ BBC Worklife, 30 May. www.bbc.
com/worklife/article/20220526-is-this-the-end-of-retirement-as-we-know-it

348 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (2020) ‘World youth report’. www.
un.org/development/desa/youth/wp-content/uploads/sites/21/2020/07/2020-World-Youth-
Report-FULL-FINAL.pdf

349 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development iLibrary (n.d.) ‘Young people in
MENA: Coming of age in a context of structural challenges and global trends’. www.oecd-ilibrary.
org/sites/3ced02bf-en/index.html?itemId=/content/component/3ced02bf-en (retrieved 22
November 2022)

350 Ibid.

351 European Commission (2022) ‘Young people projected to be 15% of EU’s population by 2050’. 4
November https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/products-eurostat-news/-/ddn-20221104-1

352 Belelieu, A. and Nazeri, H. (2020) ‘How a multi-generational workforce is key to economic
growth’. World Economic Forum, 16 December. www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/12/how-a-multi-
generational-workplace-is-key-to-economic-growth

353 Brower, T. (2022) ‘What the generations want from work: New data offers surprises’. Forbes, 28
August. www.forbes.com/sites/tracybrower/2022/08/28/what-the-generations-want-from-
work-new-data-offers-surprises/?sh=72a4fb783f32

354 World Population Review (2022) ‘Countries with space programs 2022’. https://
worldpopulationreview.com/country-rankings/countries-with-space-programs 

355 Pickrell, J. (2022) ‘These six countries are about to go to the Moon – here’s why’. Nature, 11 
May.
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-01252-7 

356 United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (2022) ‘United Nations register of objects 
launched
into outer space’. 15 November. www.unoosa.org/oosa/en/spaceobjectregister/index.html 

357 United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (2022) ‘UN Office for Outer Space Affairs and 
United
Kingdom launch new partnership on Registering Space Objects’. 1 December. www.unoosa.org/
oosa/en/informationfor/media/2022-unis-os-574.html

358 Broom, D. (2022) ‘As private satellites increase in number, what are the risks of the


commercialization of space?’ World Economic Forum, 12 January. www.weforum.org/
agenda/2022/01/what-are-risks-commercial-exploitation-space 

359 Morgan Stanley (2020) ‘Space: Investing in the final frontier’. 24 July. www.morganstanley.com/
ideas/investing-in-space 

360 Ellerbeck, S. (2022) ‘The space economy is booming. What benefits can it bring to Earth?’ World
Economic Forum. 19 October. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/10/space-economy-industry-
benefits/

361 Morgan Stanley (2020) ‘Space: Investing in the final frontier’. 24 July. www.morganstanley.com/
ideas/investing-in-space 

362 Goguichvili, S., Linenberger, A. and Gillette, A. (2021) ‘The global legal landscape of space: 
Who
writes the rules on the final frontier?’. Wilson Center, 1 October. www.wilsoncenter.org/article/
global-legal-landscape-space-who-writes-rules-final-frontier 

363 United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (n.d.) ‘Roles and responsibilities’. 
www.unoosa.org/
oosa/en/aboutus/roles-responsibilities.html (retrieved 27 October 2022)

364 Hanlon, M.L.D. and Autry, G. (2021) ‘Space law hasn’t been changed since 1967 – but the
UN aims to update laws and keep space peaceful’. The Conversation, 23 November. https://

theconversation.com/space-law-hasnt-been-changed-since-1967-but-the-un-aims-to-update-
laws-and-keep-space-peaceful-171351 

365 Kostenko, I. (2020) ‘Current problems and challenges in international space law: Legal aspects’.
Advanced Space Law, 5:48–57. http://asljournal.org/journals/2020-5/ASL_vol_5_Kostenko.pdf 

366 Vuleta, B. (2021) ‘How much data is created every day? +27 staggering stats’. Seed Scientific, 
28
October. https://seedscientific.com/how-much-data-is-created-every-day 

367 Gibney, E. (2022) ‘How many yottabytes in a quettabyte? Extreme numbers get new names’. 18
November. www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-03747-9

368 Digital Science (2022) ‘The state of open data 2022’. www.digital-science.com/resource/the-
state-of-open-data-2022 

369 Ibid.

370 European Commission (n.d.) ‘Unlocking value from open data’. https://data.europa.eu/elearning/
en/module2/#/id/co-01 (retrieved 16 November 2022)

371 MacRae, D. (2022) ‘More than 90% of businesses are unable to properly succeed in the data
economy’. Cloud Tech, 27 April. www.cloudcomputing-news.net/news/2022/apr/27/more-than-
90-of-businesses-are-unable-to-properly-succeed-in-the-data-economy 

372 Ibid.

373 World Economic Forum (n.d.) ‘Shaping the future of digital economy and new value creation’.
www.weforum.org/platforms/shaping-the-future-of-digital-economy-and-new-value-creation
(retrieved 29 November 2022)

374 PwC (2019) ‘Navigating data privacy regulations’. www.pwc.com/m1/en/services/consulting/
technology/cyber-security/navigating-data-privacy-regulations.html 

375 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2020) ‘Government access to personal
data held by the private sector: Statement by the OECD Committee on Digital Economy Policy’.
December. www.oecd.org/digital/trusted-government-access-personal-data-private-sector.htm 

376 European Commission (n.d.) ‘Unlocking value from open data’. https://data.europa.eu/elearning/
en/module2/#/id/co-01 (retrieved 16 November 2022)

377 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2021) ‘Recommendation of the Council
on Enhancing Access to and Sharing of Data’. https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/
OECD-LEGAL-0463

378 Open Data Barometer and World Wide Web Foundation (2016) ‘Middle East and North Africa’.
https://opendatabarometer.org/4thedition/regional-snapshot/middle-east-north-africa 

379 Smart Dubai Office (n.d.) ‘Data Pulse’. www.dubaipulse.gov.ae (retrieved 16 November 2022)

380 United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (n.d.) ‘Space debris’. www.unoosa.org/oosa/en/
ourwork/topics/space-debris/index.html (retrieved 17 November)

381 United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (n.d.) ‘Space law: Resolutions. 
https://www.unoosa.
org/oosa/en/ourwork/spacelaw/resolutions.html (retrieved 27 November)

382 Wood, T. (2020) ‘Who owns our orbit: Just how many satellites are there in space?’ World
Economic Forum, 23 October. www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/10/visualizing-easrth-satellites-
sapce-spacex 

383 Calculated.

384 Wood, T. (2020) ‘Who owns our orbit: Just how many satellites are there in space?’ World
Economic Forum, 23 October. www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/10/visualizing-easrth-satellites-
sapce-spacex 

385 Broom, D. (2022) ‘As private satellites increase in number, what are the risks of the
commercialization of space?’ World Economic Forum, 12 January. www.weforum.org/
agenda/2022/01/what-are-risks-commercial-exploitation-space 

386 Union of Concerned Scientists (n.d.) ‘UCS Satellite Database’. www.ucsusa.org/resources/
satellite-database (retrieved 18 January 2022)

387 Mohanta, N. (2021) ‘How many satellites are orbiting the earth in 2021?’ Geospatial World, 28 
May.
www.geospatialworld.net/blogs/how-many-satellites-are-orbiting-the-earth-in-2021

388 Fortune Business Insights (2022) ‘Space Debris Monitoring and Removal Market
Size Hit USD 1,527.7 Million by 2029 | Space Debris Monitoring and Removal Industry
CAGR 7.15%’.GlobeNewswire. 27 September. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-

release/2022/09/27/2522962/0/en/Space-Debris-Monitoring-and-Removal-Market-Size-Hit-
USD-1-527-7-Million-by-2029-Space-Debris-Monitoring-and-Removal-Industry-CAGR-7-15.html  

389 Various (2022) ‘International space station benefits for humanity’. National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA). www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/atoms/files/iss_benefits_for_


humanity_2022_book.pdf

390 Staughton, J. (2022) ‘How does space debris impact earth’s environment and atmosphere?’
Science ABC, 9 July. www.scienceabc.com/nature/universe/how-does-space-debris-impact-
earths-environment-and-atmosphere.html 

391 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2020) ‘Space sustainability: The
economics of space debris in perspective’. April. https://read.oecd-ilibrary.org/science-and-
technology/space-sustainability_a339de43-en 

392 Zander, F. (2022) ‘What’s the risk of being hit by falling space debris?’. 27 September, 
www.bbc.
com/future/article/20220912-what-happens-to-space-debris-when-it-returns-to-earth

393 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2020) ‘Space sustainability: The
economics of space debris in perspective’. April. https://read.oecd-ilibrary.org/science-and-
technology/space-sustainability_a339de43-en 

394 World Population Review (2022) ‘Countries with water scarcity 2022’. https://
worldpopulationreview.com/country-rankings/countries-with-water-scarcity

395 International Water Management Institute (2022) ‘Planning for drought in MENA’. 30 August. www.
iwmi.cgiar.org/2022/08/planning-for-drought-in-mena

396 Moseman, A. (2022) ‘How many new trees would we need to offset our carbon emissions?’. MIT
Climate Portal, 16 June. https://climate.mit.edu/ask-mit/how-many-new-trees-would-we-need-
offset-our-carbon-emissions

397 Isaifan, R. and Baldauf, R. (2020) ‘Estimating economic and environmental benefits of urban
trees in desert regions’. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, 8:16. https://doi.org/10.3389/
fevo.2020.00016 

398 Costanza, R. et al. (1997) ‘The value of the world’s ecosystem services and natural capital’. 
Nature,
387: 253–60. www.esd.ornl.gov/benefits_conference/nature_paper.pdf

399 Sandberg, A. (2014) ‘Earth: Priceless’. University of Oxford: Practical Ethics – Ethics in the 
News,
24 December. http://blog.practicalethics.ox.ac.uk/2014/12/earth-priceless

400 Food and Agriculture Organization (2022) ‘The state of the world’s forests 2022: Forest pathways
for green recovery and building inclusive, resilient and sustainable economies’. https://doi.
org/10.4060/cb9360en

401 World Health Organization (n.d.) ‘Climate change’. www.who.int/health-topics/climate-change
(retrieved 14 November 2022)

402 International Energy Agency (2022) ‘Carbon Capture, Utilisation and Storage’. IEA. www.iea.org/
reports/carbon-capture-utilisation-and-storage-2

403 Grand View Research (2022) ‘Carbon capture and storage market size, share and trends analysis
report by capture technology …, by application, by region, and segment forecasts, 2022–2030’.
www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/carbon-capture-storage-ccs-market 

404 RystadEnergy (2022) ‘Carbon capture capacity poised to surge more than 10 times by 2030, but
aggressive investment needed to meet mid-century targets’. 26 April. www.rystadenergy.com/
news/carbon-capture-capacity-poised-to-surge-more-than-10-times-by-2030-but-aggressive

405 Bell, E. (2022) ‘Carbon markets in development in GCC’. Emirates NBD, 1 April. www.
emiratesnbdresearch.com/research/article/?a=carbon-markets-in-development-in-gcc-2633

406 Farooq, M. et al. (2022) ‘A survey on the role of IoT in agriculture for the implementation
of smart livestock environment’. IEEE Access, 10: 9483–505. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ACCESS.2022.3142848

407 Ya’acob, N. et al. (2021) ‘Water quality monitoring system for fisheries using internet of 
things
(IoT)’. IOP Conference Series: Material Science and Engineering, 1176: 012016. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1757-899X/1176/1/012016

408 Miasayedava, L., McBride, K. and Tuhtan, J. (2022). ‘Automated environmental compliance
monitoring of rivers with IoT and open government data’. Journal of Environmental Management,
303: 114283. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.114283

409 Hasan, M. (2022) ‘State of IoT 2022: Number of connected IoT devices growing 18% to 14.4 billion
globally’. IOT Analytics, 18 May. https://iot-analytics.com/number-connected-iot-devices

410 The COP26 Secret Negotiator (2021) ‘The fight against climate change goes beyond reducing CO₂
emissions’. The Guardian, 16 October. www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/oct/16/the-fight-
against-climate-change-goes-beyond-reducing-co2-emissions

411  United Nations Environment Programme (2022) ‘Beyond GDP: Making nature count in the shift to
sustainability’. 7 February. www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/beyond-gdp-making-nature-
count-shift-sustainability

412 Khan, M. et al. (2021) ‘Social media for knowledge acquisition and dissemination: The impact
of the Covid-19 pandemic on collaborative learning driven social media adoption’. Frontiers in
Psychology, 31 May. www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.648253/full

413 World Bank (n.d.) ‘Digital technologies in education’. www.worldbank.org/en/topic/edutech 
(retrieved 15 November 2022)

414 STM (2021) ‘STM global brief 2021: Economics and market size’. www.stm-assoc.
org/2022_08_24_STM_White_Report_a4_v15.pdf

415 Ibid.

416 Ibid.

417 Aczel, B. et al. (2021) ‘A billion-dollar donation: Estimating the cost of researchers’ time 
spent on
peer review’. Research Integrity and Peer Review, 6: 14. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41073-021-00118-
2

418 Teixeira da Silva, J. and Nazarovets, S. (2022) ‘The role of Publons in the context of open peer
review’. Publishing Research Quality. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12109-022-09914-0

419 Ibid.

420 Ibid.


421 Ibid.

422 Ibid.

423 Deloitte (2021) ‘The new knowledge management: The human factor activates the collective
intelligence’. www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/insights/articles/emea103993_the-new-
knowledge-management/DI_The-new-knowledge-management.pdf

424 Ibid.

425 ReportLinker (2022) ‘Global Knowledge Management Market to Reach $1.1 Trillion
by 2026’. GlobeNewswire, 20 June. http://www.globenewswire.com/news-

release/2022/06/20/2465289/0/en/Global-Knowledge-Management-Market-to-Reach-1-1-
Trillion-by-2026.html

426 Chui, M., Roberts, R. and Yee, L. (2022) ‘Generative A is here: How tools like ChatGPT could
change your business’. QuantumBlack: AI by McKinsey. 20 September. www.mckinsey.com/
capabilities/quantumblack/our-insights/generative-ai-is-here-how-tools-like-chatgpt-could-
change-your-business

427 International Finance Corporation (2022) ‘Women and online learning in emerging markets’.
June. www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/b6a2e805-3c88-4145-bee7-14824ded31c8/Report_
Women+and+Online+Learning+in+Emerging+Markets.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CVID=o7uQanh

428 Ibid.

429 European Institute of Innovation & Technology (2022) ‘EIT Digital presents new report on the
future of education for digital skills’. 7 September. https://eit.europa.eu/news-events/news/eit-
digital-presents-new-report-future-education-digital-skills

430 UN Habitat (2021) ‘Addressing the digital divide’. https://unhabitat.org/programme/legacy/
people-centered-smart-cities/addressing-the-digital-divide

431 International Finance Corporation (2022) ‘Women and online learning in emerging markets’.
June. www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/b6a2e805-3c88-4145-bee7-14824ded31c8/Report_
Women+and+Online+Learning+in+Emerging+Markets.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CVID=o7uQanh

432 Market Research Future (2022) ‘Augmented reality (AR) market size to hit USD 461.25 billion at a
CAGR of 41.50% CAGR by 2030: Report by Market Research Future (MRFR)’. GlobeNewswire, 27
September. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2022/09/27/2523487/0/en/Augmented-
Reality-AR-Market-Size-to-Hit-USD-461-25-Billion-at-a-CAGR-of-41-50-CAGR-by-2030-
Report-by-Market-Research-Future-MRFR.html

433 Future Market Insights (2022) ‘Earphone and headphone market valuation of US$ 35.2 bn by
2028: Comprehensive research report by FMI’. 20 January. www.globenewswire.com/news-
release/2022/01/20/2369963/0/en/Earphone-and-Headphone-Market-valuation-of-US-35-2-
Bn-by-2028-Comprehensive-Research-Report-by-FMI.html

434 PwC (2020) ‘Seeing is believing: How VR and AR will transform business and the economy globally
and in the UAE’. www.pwc.com/m1/en/services/consulting/technology/emerging-technology/
seeing-is-believing-ar-vr-uae.html

435 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (n.d.) ‘Goal 9: Build resilient
infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation’. https://
sdgs.un.org/goals/goal9 (retrieved 15 November 2022)

436 Harris, N. and Gibbs, D. (2021) ‘Forests absorb twice as much carbon as they emit each year’.
World Resources Institute, 21 January. www.wri.org/insights/forests-absorb-twice-much-carbon-
they-emit-each-year

437 Penke, M. (2021) ‘Carbon sinks: How nature helps fight climate change’. Deutsche Welle, 25
November. www.dw.com/en/carbon-sinks-how-nature-helps-fight-climate-change/a-59835700

438 Wyatt, H. (2022) ‘How does rewilding help climate change?’ Woodlands, 22 July. www.woodlands.
co.uk/blog/flora-and-fauna/how-does-rewilding-help-climate-change

439 Jiang, L. et al. (2021) ‘Country-level land carbon sink and its causing components by the middle
of the twenty-first century’. Ecological Processes, 10(61). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13717-021-
00328-y

440 Ibid.

441 United Nations (n.d.) ‘Sustainable Development Goals: Goal 13 – take urgent action to combat
climate change and its impacts’. www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/climate-change (retrieved
11 November 2022)

442 Wyatt, H. (2022) ‘How does rewilding help climate change?’ Woodlands, 22 July. www.woodlands.
co.uk/blog/flora-and-fauna/how-does-rewilding-help-climate-change

443 The Nature Conservancy (n.d.) ‘What is a carbon footprint?’ www.nature.org/en-us/get-involved/
how-to-help/carbon-footprint-calculator (retrieved 11 November 2022)

444 Kilgore, G. (2022) ‘How many trees are planted each year? Full list by country, type, year’. 8 
Billion
Trees, 21 September. https://8billiontrees.com/trees/how-many-trees-are-planted-each-year

445 Food and Agriculture Organization (2020) ‘Land use in agriculture by the numbers’. 7 May. www.
fao.org/sustainability/news/detail/en/c/1274219/

446 Based on pound sterling and US dollar exchange rates on 8 November 2022.

447 Place-Based Climate Action Network (2021) ‘Planting trees could benefit the economy by £366m
and create 36,000 jobs’. 8 July. https://pcancities.org.uk/news/planting-trees-could-benefit-
economy-%C2%A3366m-and-create-36000-jobs

448 United Nations Environment Programme (2021) ‘Methane emissions are driving climate change:
Here’s how to reduce them’. 20 August. www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/methane-
emissions-are-driving-climate-change-heres-how-reduce-them

449 Brister, E. and Newhouse, A. (2020) ‘Not the same old chestnut: Rewilding forests
with biotechnology’. Environmental Ethics, 42(2): 149–67. www.acf.org/wp-content/
uploads/2021/03/2020-Brister-Newhouse-Env-Ethics.pdf

450 Heimpel, H. (2021) ‘How does deforestation impact wildlife and biodiversity? What you need to


know’. Ecologi, 3 March. https://ecologi.com/articles/blog/how-does-deforestation-impact-
wildlife-and-biodiversity-what-you-need-to-know

451 Gwinnet, C. (2020) ‘How your car sheds microplastics into the ocean thousands of miles away’.
The Conversation, 14 July. https://theconversation.com/how-your-car-sheds-microplastics-into-
the-ocean-thousands-of-miles-away-142614

452 Belkacem, I. et al. (2022) ‘Road traffic nanoparticle characteristics: Sustainable environment
and mobility’. Geoscience Frontiers, 13(1): 101196. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S1674987121000608

453 Ibid.

454 Perrson, L. et al. (2022) ‘Outside the safe operating space of the planetary boundary for novel
entities’. Environmental Science & Technology, 56(3): 1510–21. https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/
acs.est.1c04158

455 United Nations Environment Programme (2021) ‘Measuring progress: Environment and the SDGs’.
22 May. www.unep.org/resources/publication/measuring-progress-environment-and-sdgs

456 Ibid.

457 United Nations (2019) ‘Attaining sustainable development goals by 2030 will be impossible
at current investment rate, Deputy Secretary-General tells Global Compact CEO event’. 26
September. https://press.un.org/en/2019/dsgsm1347.doc.htm

458 Global Forest Watch (2021) ‘Global deforestation rates and statistics by country’. www.
globalforestwatch.org/dashboards/global

459 World Wildlife Fund (2021) ‘A warning sign: Where biodiversity loss is happening around the
world’. World Wildlife Magazine, summer. www.worldwildlife.org/magazine/issues/summer-2021/
articles/a-warning-sign-where-biodiversity-loss-is-happening-around-the-world

460 United Nations Environment Programme (2022) ‘Rising sea surface temperatures driving the loss
of 14 percent of corals since 2009’. 5 October. www.unep.org/news-and-stories/press-release/
rising-sea-surface-temperatures-driving-loss-14-percent-corals-2009

461 Pearce, F. (2015) ‘Global extinction rates: Why do estimates vary so wildly?’ Yale Environment 
360,
17 August. https://e360.yale.edu/features/global_extinction_rates_why_do_estimates_vary_so_
wildly

462 Pretis, F. et al. (2018) ‘Uncertain impacts on economic growth when stabilizing global
temperatures at 1.5°C or 2°C warming’. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A:
Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 376(2119): 20160460. www.researchgate.
net/publication/324163176_Uncertain_impacts_on_economic_growth_when_stabilizing_global_
temperatures_at_15C_or_2C_warming

463 United Nations (n.d.) ‘The 2030 agenda for sustainable development’. https://sdgs.un.org/goals
(retrieved 30 November 2022)

464 United Nations Climate Change (2022) ‘Climate plans remain insufficient: More ambitious action
needed now’. 26 October. https://unfccc.int/news/climate-plans-remain-insufficient-more-
ambitious-action-needed-now

465 Vener, J. (2021) ‘To win the battle against climate change, we have to start thinking long 
term’.
United Nations Development Programme, 28 September. www.undp.org/blog/win-battle-against-
climate-change-we-have-start-thinking-long-term-0

466 United States Environmental Protection Agency (2022) ‘Climate change indicators: Atmospheric
concentrations of greenhouse gases’. July. www.epa.gov/climate-indicators/climate-change-
indicators-atmospheric-concentrations-greenhouse-gases

467 Ibid.

468 Ibid.

469 United Nations (2022) ‘United Nations Climate Change Annual Report 2021’. United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change. https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/
UNFCCC_Annual_Report_2021.pdf

470 Ibid.

471 Earth Observatory (2022) ‘World of change: Global temperatures’. https://earthobservatory.nasa.
gov/world-of-change/global-temperatures

472 Mulligan, J. et al. (2020) ‘6 ways to remove carbon pollution from the sky’. World Resources
Institute, 9 June. www.wri.org/insights/6-ways-remove-carbon-pollution-sky

473 Ibid.

474 Valle, S. (2022) ‘Exxon sees carbon capture market at $4 trillion by 2050’. 21 April. www.
reuters.com/business/sustainable-business/exxon-sees-carbon-capture-market-4-trillion-
by-2050-2022-04-19/

475 Song, Y. et al. (2020) ‘Dry reforming of methane by stable Ni–Mo nanocatalysts on single-
crystalline MgO’. Science, 367(6479): 777–81. www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.aav2412

476 United States Environmental Protection Agency (2022) ‘Overview of greenhouse gases’. 16 May.
www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases

477 Jevrejeva, S. et al. (2016) ‘Coastal sea level rise with warming above 2°C’. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 113(47): 13342–7. https://doi.
org/10.1073/pnas.1605312113

478 According to Representative Concentration Pathway 8.5

479 Cox, D. (2018) ‘Two Audacious Plans for saving the world’s ice sheets: Scientist says giant 
walls
and cooling tunnels may be the best ways to save polar ice’. Match Blog, NBC News, 28 May.
www.nbcnews.com/mach/science/can-these-bold-plans-keep-world-s-ice-sheets-melting-
ncna877616

480 Ibid.

481 Arctic University of Norway (2021) ‘Methane release rapidly increases in the wake of the 
melting ice


sheets’. ScienceDaily, 29 April. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2021/04/210429104953.htm

482 Iberdrola (n.d.) ‘Glaciers, the great guardians of the stability of the planet’s climate’. 
www.iberdrola.
com/sustainability/melting-glaciers-causes-effects-solutions (retrieved 15 November 2022)

483 Jevrejeva, S. et al. (2016) ‘Coastal sea level rise with warming above 2°C’. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 113(47): 13342–7. https://doi.
org/10.1073/pnas.1605312113

484 Nash, M.H. (2022) ‘These 36 world cities will be underwater first’. Greenroofs.com, 22 March.
www.greenroofs.com/2022/03/02/these-36-world-cities-will-be-underwater-first

485 Acciona (n.d.) ‘Countries at risk of disappearing due to climate change’. 
www.activesustainability.
com/climate-change/countries-risk-disappearing-climate-change/?_adin=02021864894
(retrieved 15 November 2022)

486 Climate Repair (n.d.) ‘Centre for Climate Repair at Cambridge’. www.climaterepair.cam.ac.uk
(retrieved 24 November 2022)

487 Maltby, K.M. et al. (2022) ‘Marine climate change risks to biodiversity and society in the ROPME
Sea Area’. Climate Risk Management, 35: 100411. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S2212096322000183

488 Wehry, F. and Fawal, N. (2022) ‘Cascading climate effects in the Middle East and North Africa:
Adapting through inclusive governance’. Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 24
February. https://carnegieendowment.org/2022/02/24/cascading-climate-effects-in-middle-
east-and-north-africa-adapting-through-inclusive-governance-pub-86510.

489 Ibid.

490 Desch, S.J. et al. (2017) ‘Arctic ice management’. Earth’s Future, 5(1): 107–27. https://doi.
org/10.1002/2016EF000410

491 Field, L. et al. (2018) ‘Increasing Arctic sea ice albedo using localized reversible
geoengineering’. Earth’s Future, 6(6): 882– 901. https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/
full/10.1029/2018EF000820

492 Malhi, Y. et al. (2020) ‘Climate change and ecosystems: Threats, opportunities and solutions’.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, 375(1794). https://royalsocietypublishing.org/
doi/10.1098/rstb.2019.0104

493 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2019) ‘Biodiversity: Finance and the
economic and business case for action’. www.oecd.org/environment/resources/biodiversity/G7-
report-Biodiversity-Finance-and-the-Economic-and-Business-Case-for-Action.pdf

494 Weisse, M. and Goldman, L. (2022) ‘Forest loss remained stubbornly high in 2021’. Global Forest
Watch, 28 April. www.globalforestwatch.org/blog/data-and-research/global-tree-cover-loss-
data-2021

495 Ramsar Convention on Wetlands (2021) ‘The global wetland outlook: Special edition 2021’. www.
global-wetland-outlook.ramsar.org

496 United States Environmental Protection Agency (2022) ‘Climate change indicators: Atmospheric
concentrations of greenhouse gases’. July. www.epa.gov/climate-indicators/climate-change-
indicators-atmospheric-concentrations-greenhouse-gases

497 Nasa (n.d.) ‘What is the greenhouse effect?’. https://climate.nasa.gov/faq/19/what-is-the-
greenhouse-effect/ (retrieved 6 December 2022)

498 UN Climate Action (n.d.) 'Biodiversity: Our strongest natural defense against climate change. 
www.
un.org/en/climatechange/science/climate-issues/biodiversity (retrieved 6 December 2022)

499 Wehrey, F. and Fawal, N. (2022) ‘Cascading climate effects in the Middle East and North Africa:
Adapting through inclusive governance’. Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 24
February. https://carnegieendowment.org/2022/02/24/cascading-climate-effects-in-middle-
east-and-north-africa-adapting-through-inclusive-governance-pub-86510

500 Ibid.

501 Awogbemi, O. et al. (2022) ‘Resource recycling with the aim of achieving zero-waste
manufacturing’. Sustainability, 14(8): 4503. www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/14/8/4503

502 Saxena, A. and Srivastava, A. (2022) ‘Industry application of green manufacturing: A critical
review’. Journal of Sustainability and Environmental Management, 1(1): 32–5. https://papers.ssrn.
com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4043769

503 United Nations (n.d.) ‘Biodiversity: Our strongest natural defense against climate change’. www.
un.org/en/climatechange/science/climate-issues/biodiversity (retrieved 15 November 2022)

504 Royal Society (n.d.) ‘How does climate change affect biodiversity?’ https://royalsociety.org/
topics-policy/projects/biodiversity/climate-change-and-biodiversity (retrieved 15 November
2022)

505 Mason, L. et al. (2019) ‘Population responses of bird populations to climate change on two
continents vary with species’ ecological traits but not with direction of change in climate
suitability’. Climatic Change, 157: 337–54. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-019-02549-9

506 Gatti, L. et al. (2021) ‘Amazonia as a carbon source linked to deforestation and climate 
change’.
Nature, 595: 388–93. www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03629-6.epdf

507 Schraufnagel, D. et al. (2019) ‘Air pollution and noncommunicable diseases: A review by the 
Forum
of International Respiratory Societies’ Environmental Committee, part 1: Air pollution and organ
systems’. Chest, 155(2): 409–16. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chest.2018.10.042

508 Schraufnagel, D. et al. (2019) ‘Air pollution and noncommunicable diseases: A review by the 
Forum
of International Respiratory Societies’ Environmental Committee, part 2: Air pollution and organ
systems’. Chest, 155(2): 417–26. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6904854

509 World Health Organisation (2021) ‘Climate Change and Health’. 30 October. www.who.int/news-
room/fact-sheets/detail/climate-change-and-health

510 Nunez, C. (2019) ‘Carbon dioxide levels are at a record high: Here’s what you need to know’.
National Geographic, 13 May. www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/article/greenhouse-
gases


511 Ibid.

512 Ibid.

513 United States Environment Agency (n.d.) ‘Global Methane Initiative: Importance of methane’. www.
epa.gov/gmi/importance-methane (retrieved 15 November 2022)

514 United States Environment Agency (n.d.) ‘Greenhouse gas emissions: Overview of greenhouse
gases’. www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases (retrieved 15 November 2022)

515 United Nations Climate Change (2022) ‘Air quality sinks as climate change accelerates’. 7
September. https://unfccc.int/news/air-quality-sinks-as-climate-change-accelerates

516 Ibid.

517 Voiland, A. (2010) ‘Aerosols: Tiny particles, big impact’. NASA Earth Observatory, 2 November.
https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/features/Aerosols

518 World Health Organization (2022) ‘Billions of people still breathe unhealthy air: New WHO 
data’. 4
April. www.who.int/news/item/04-04-2022-billions-of-people-still-breathe-unhealthy-air-new-
who-data

519  Sokhi, R. et al. (2021) ‘A global observational analysis to understand changes in air quality 
during
exceptionally low anthropogenic emission conditions’. Environment International, 157: 106818.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2021.106818

520 Chibani, A. (2022) ‘Climate change in MENA: Current pressures and future dangers’. Wilson
Center, 25 March. www.wilsoncenter.org/article/climate-change-mena-current-pressures-and-
future-dangers

521 World Bank (2022) ‘MENA’s polluted skies and seas hurt economies, livelihoods’. 7 February. www.
worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/02/07/mena-s-polluted-skies-and-seas-hurt-
economies-livelihoods

522 Ibid.

523 Chandler, D. (2022) ‘Could this new breakthrough help turn carbon dioxide into fuel?’ World
Economic Forum, 22 January. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/01/carbon-dioxide-conversion-
breakthrough-greenhouse-gases

524 Nicodemou, A. (2013) ‘Turning carbon dioxide into something useful’. Royal Society of Chemistry,
11 July. www.chemistryworld.com/news/turning-carbon-dioxide-into-something-useful/6374.
article

525 World Bank (n.d.) ‘Water in agriculture’. www.worldbank.org/en/topic/water-in-agriculture
(retrieved 15 November 2022)

526 Crowfoot, T. (2022) ‘World population just passed 8 billion. Here’s what it means’. World 
Economic
Forum. 16 November. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/11/world-population-passes-8-billion-
what-you-need-to-know/ 

527 United Nations (2022) ‘World population prospects 2022: Summary of results’. www.un.org/
development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/wpp2022_summary_of_
results.pdf 

528 World Bank (n.d.) ‘Water in agriculture’. www.worldbank.org/en/topic/water-in-agriculture
(retrieved 15 November 2022)

529 Food and Agriculture Organization (2021) ‘Statistical yearbook: World food and agriculture 
2021’.
www.fao.org/3/cb4477en/cb4477en.pdf

530 United States Environmental Protection Agency (n.d.) ‘Agriculture and climate’. www.epa.gov/
agriculture/agriculture-and-climate (retrieved 15 November 2022)

531 Gray, E. (2021) ‘Global climate change impact on crops expected within 10 years, NASA study
finds’. NASA Global Climate Change, 2 November. https://climate.nasa.gov/news/3124/global-
climate-change-impact-on-crops-expected-within-10-years-nasa-study-finds

532 Kirtane, A.R. et al. (2021) ‘Nanotechnology approaches for global infectious diseases’. Nature
Nanotechnology, 16: 369–384. www.nature.com/articles/s41565-021-00866-8

533 Mago, A. et al. (2022) ‘Nanomedicine: Advancement in healthcare’. Annals of Medicine and
Surgery, 79: 104078. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9260235/pdf/main.pdf

534 Bowen, A., Sweeney, E. and Fernandes, R. (2020) ‘Nanoparticle-based immunoengineered
approaches for combating HIV’. Frontiers in Immunology, 28 April. www.frontiersin.org/
articles/10.3389/fimmu.2020.00789/full

535 Peplow, M. (2021) ‘Nanotechnology offers alternative ways to fight COVID-19 pandemic with
antivirals’. Nature Biotechnology, 39: 1172–4. www.nature.com/articles/s41587-021-01085-1

536 Bloomberg UK (2022) ‘Nanotechnology market to reach USD33.63 billion by 2030,
registering a CAGR of 36.4%: Valuates Reports’. 2 September. www.bloomberg.com/press-

releases/2022-09-02/nanotechnology-market-to-reach-usd-33-63-billion-by-2030-registering-
a-cagr-of-36-4-valuates-reports

537 United Nations (n.d.) ‘Water scarcity’. UN Water. www.unwater.org/water-facts/water-scarcity
(retrieved 15 November 2022)

538 Food and Agriculture Organization (2021) ‘In brief: The state of food and agriculture 2021 – 
Making
agrifood systems more resilient to shocks and stresses’. www.fao.org/3/cb7351en/cb7351en.pdf 

539 United Nations (n.d.) ‘Water scarcity’. UN Water. www.unwater.org/water-facts/water-scarcity
(retrieved 15 November 2022)

540 Vijayakumar, M. et al. (2022) ‘Evolution and recent scenario of nanotechnology in agriculture 
and
food industries’. Journal of Nanomaterials, 1280411. www.heba.com/journals/jnm/2022/1280411

541 Jarvie, H. (2019) ‘Nanoparticle’. Britannica. www.britannica.com/science/nanoparticle

542 An, C. et al. (2022) ‘Nanomaterials and nanotechnology for the delivery of agrochemicals:
Strategies towards sustainable agriculture’. Journal of Nanobiotechnology, 20(1): 11. https://
jnanobiotechnology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12951-021-01214-7

543 Ibid.

544 Fraceto, L.F. et al. (2016) ‘Nanotechnology in agriculture: Which innovation potential does


it have?’ Frontiers in Environmental Science, 4: 20. www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/
fenvs.2016.00020/full

545 University of California, Davis (2021) ‘Sustainable Agriculture Research & Education Program:
What is sustainable agriculture?’ https://sarep.ucdavis.edu/sustainable-ag

546 Ortiz-Ospina, E. (2019) ‘The rise of social media’. Our World in Data, 18 September. https://
ourworldindata.org/rise-of-social-media

547 Higher Logic (2021) ‘The state of community management 2021’. The Community Roundtable.
www.higherlogic.com/lp/state-of-community-management-2021 

548 Penn State (n.d.) ‘Are online communities helpful or hurtful?’ https://sites.psu.edu/
aspsy/2022/03/30/are-online-communities-helpful-or-hurtful (retrieved 10 November 2022)

549 Aleksieska, E. (2020) ‘Anonymity allows for greater acceptance and inclusiveness in online
communities’. Debating Communities and Networks XI Conference 2020, Curtin University, 10
May. https://networkconference.netstudies.org/2020Curtin/2020/05/10/anonymity-allows-for-
greater-acceptance-and-inclusiveness-in-online-communities

550 Datareportal (2022) ‘Digital 2022: Global overview report’. https://datareportal.com/reports/
digital-2022-global-overview-report

551 Ibid.

552 GWI (2022) ‘Social: GWI’s flagship report on the latest trends in social media’.www.gwi.com/
reports/social

553 Ibid.

554 Higher Logic (2021) ‘The state of community management 2021’. The Community Roundtable.
www.higherlogic.com/lp/state-of-community-management-2021 

555 Vantage Market Research (2022) ‘Global cloud gaming market to record robust growth of
CAGR 42.7% and to reach value of USD 12.6 billion by 2028’. GlobeNewswire, 22 August. www.
globenewswire.com\en\news-release\2022\08\22\2502095\0\en\Global-Cloud-Gaming-

Market-to-Record-Robust-Growth-of-CAGR-42-7-and-to-Reach-Value-of-USD-12-6-Billion-by-
2028-Market-Overview-Competitive-Landscape-Emerging-Trends-Forecast-Report.html  

556 Crown Analyzer (2021) ‘State of social media 2021: All you need to know about the social media
in the Middle East’. www.crowdanalyzer.com/reports/state-of-social-media-report-in-mena-
region-2021 

557 Ibid.

558 World Economic Forum (2022) ‘Decentralized Autonomous Organizations: Beyond the Hype’. June
2022. www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Decentralized_Autonomous_Organizations_Beyond_the_
Hype_2022.pdf

559 Ibid.

560 Ibid.

561 Ibid.

562 DeepDAO (n.d.) ‘Organizations’. https://deepdao.io/organizations (rertrieved 19 January 2023)

563 Ibid.

564 Ibid.

565 Ibid.

566 Ibid.

567 United Nations (2022) ‘The Sustainable Development Goals report 2022’. https://unstats.un.org/
sdgs/report/2022

568 Ibid.

569 Guivarch, C., Taconet, N. and Mejean, A. (2021) ‘Linking climate and inequality’. IMF. 
www.imf.org/
en/Publications/fandd/issues/2021/09/climate-change-and-inequality-guivarch-mejean-taconet

570 African Development Bank Group (2022) ‘Climate and green growth strategic framework:
Projecting Africa’s voice – strategy 2021–2030’. 4 March. www.afdb.org/en/documents/climate-
and-green-growth-strategic-framework-projecting-africas-voice-strategy-2021-2030

571 World Bank (2020) ‘Poverty and shared prosperity 2020: Reversals of fortune’. 7 October. www.
worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2020/10/07/global-action-urgently-needed-to-halt-historic-
threats-to-poverty-reduction

572 Ibid.

573 World Bank (n.d.) ‘Earth’s water’. https://olc.worldbank.org/sites/default/files/sco/E7B1C4DE-
C187-5EDB-3EF2-897802DEA3BF/Nasa/chapter1.html (retrieved 20 January 2023)

574 UNICEF (n.d.) ‘Water scarcity’. http://www.unicef.org/wash/water-scarcity (retrieved 20 January
2023)

575 Ibid.

576 Morgan Stanley (2022) ‘A deep dive on the water crisis’. 14 February. www.morganstanley.com/
ideas/water-scarcity-causes-and-solutions

577 United Nations (2022) ‘The Sustainable Development Goals report 2022’. https://unstats.un.org/
sdgs/report/2022

578 Chaffey, D. (2022) ‘Global social media statistics research summary 2022’. Smart Insights, 22
August. www.smartinsights.com/social-media-marketing/social-media-strategy/new-global-
social-media-research

579 Nakamura, J.S. et al. (2022) ‘Identifying pathways to increased volunteering in older US 
adults’.
Scientific Reports, 12: 12825. www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-16912-x 

580 Patrick, R., Henderson-Wilson, C. and Ebden, M. (2021) ‘Exploring the co-benefits of
environmental volunteering for human and planetary health promotion’. Health Promotion Journal
of Australia, 33(1): 57–67. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/hpja.460 

581 Crittenden, J.A., Coleman, R.L. and Butler, S.S. (2022) ‘“It helps me find balance”: Older 
adult


perspectives on the intersection of caregiving and volunteering’. Home Health Care Services
Quarterly, 41(4): 291–309. www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01621424.2022.2034700 

582 Nursey-Bray, M. et al. (2022) ‘Building community resilience through youth volunteering: Towards
a new model’. Regional Studies, Regional Science, 9(1): 242–63. www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.
1080/21681376.2022.2067004 

583 Mazanec, J. (2022) ‘Corporate volunteering as a current phenomenon in corporate social
responsibility to support the career development and professional skills of employees during the
COVID-19 pandemic: A case study of the Slovak Republic’. Sustainability, 14(7): 4319. www.mdpi.
com/2071-1050/14/7/4319

584 International Labour Organization (2021) ‘Volunteer work measurement guide’. www.ilo.org/
wcmsp5/groups/public/---dgreports/---stat/documents/publication/wcms_789950.pdf

585 UN Volunteers (2022) ‘2022 state of the world’s volunteerism report’. https://swvr2022.unv.org

586 Nakamura, J.S. et al. (2022) ‘Identifying pathways to increased volunteering in older US adults’
Scientific Reports, 12: 12825. www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-16912-x

587 Ibid.

588 Patrick, R., Henderson-Wilson, C. and Ebden, M. (2021) ‘Exploring the co-benefits of
environmental volunteering for human and planetary health promotion’. Health Promotion Journal
of Australia, 33(1): 57–67. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/hpja.460 

589 Fleming, S. (2019) ‘Sweden gives all employees time off to be entrepreneurs’. World Economic
Forum, 11 February. www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/02/sweden-gives-all-employees-time-off-
to-be-entrepreneurs 

590 National Commission on Service (2018) ‘Mandatory service around the globe’. Medium, 6
December. https://medium.com/@inspire2serveUS/mandatory-service-around-the-globe-
c05e11810cfc

591  Wang, S. et al. (2022) ‘Can volunteering buffer the negative impacts of unemployment and
economic inactivity on mental health? Longitudinal evidence from the United Kingdom’.
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 19(11): 6809. www.mdpi.
com/1660-4601/19/11/6809/htm 

592 Murad, A.L. et al. (2021) ‘Evaluating well-being at community level’. Mayo Clinic Proceedings:
Innovations, Quality & Outcomes, 5(6): 961–8. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8488461 

593 Ibid.

594 UK Research and Innovation (2022) ‘Developing local policy innovation partnerships’. www.ukri.
org/opportunity/developing-local-policy-innovation-partnerships

595  Pew Research Center (2019) ‘How people around the world view diversity in their countries’. 19 
April.
www.pewresearch.org/global/2019/04/22/how-people-around-the-world-view-diversity-in-their-
countries/pg_2019-04-22_global-views-cultural-change_1-01 

596 World Economic Forum (2021) ‘Racial and ethnic inequality has cost US economy $51 trillion since
1990’. 12 September. www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/09/racial-and-ethnic-inequality-has-cost-
us-economy-51-trillion-since-1990 

597 World Economic Forum (2022) ‘Global gender gap report 2022’. July. www3.weforum.org/docs/
WEF_GGGR_2022.pdf

598 PwC (2019) ‘Women in work: Insights from Middle East and North Africa’. www.pwc.com/m1/en/
publications/women-in-work-index.html

599 Masiga, J. (2022) ‘Why diversity, equity and inclusion should be at the heart of economic 
recovery’.
World Economic Forum, 24 May. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/05/davos-2022-diversity-
equity-and-inclusion-450773f495 

600 World Economic Forum (2021) ‘The valuable 500: Closing the disability inclusion gap’. www.
weforum.org/projects/closing-the-disability-inclusion-gap

601 Massie, M. (2020) ‘A facilitator’s guide: Intersectional approaches to mental health 
education’.

University of British Columbia. https://wellbeing.ubc.ca/sites/wellbeing.ubc.ca/files/u9/
Facilitator%20Guide%20-%20Intersectionality%20and%20Mental%20Health.pdf

602 Simon, J.D., Boyd, R. and Subica, A.M. (2022) ‘Refocusing intersectionality in social work
education: Creating a brave space to discuss oppression and privilege’. Journal of Social Work
Education, 58(1): 34–45. www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10437797.2021.1883492
(requires subscription)

603 Bambra, C. (2022) ‘Placing intersectional inequalities in health’. Health & Place, 75: 102761. 
www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353829222000223

604 Wang, A., Ramaswamy, V.V. and Russakovsky, O. (2022) ‘Towards intersectionality in machine
learning: Including more identities, handling underrepresentation, and performing evaluation’.
Cornell University. https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.04610 

605 Bambra, C. (2022) ‘Placing intersectional inequalities in health’. Health & Place, 75: 102761. 
www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1353829222000223 

606 Schaedig, D. (2022) ‘What is groupthink?’ Simply Psychology, 25 March. www.simplypsychology.
org/groupthink.html 

607 Ibid.

608 West, D.M. and Allen, J.R. (2018) ‘How artificial intelligence is transforming the world’. 
Brookings,
24 April. www.brookings.edu/research/how-artificial-intelligence-is-transforming-the-world 

609 Schroer, A. (2022) ‘25 examples of AI in finance’. Builtin, 11 July. 
https://builtin.com/artificial-
intelligence/ai-finance-banking-applications-companies 

610 CIO (2022) ‘Artificial intelligence increases efficiency and accuracy for financial 
organizations’. 21
January. www.cio.com/article/303688/artificial-intelligence-increases-efficiency-and-accuracy-
for-financial-organizations.html 

611  Entrepreneur (2018) ‘How “groupthink” can cost your business (and 3 corporate examples)’.
16 April. www.entrepreneur.com/leadership/how-groupthink-can-cost-your-business-and-3-

corporate/311864 


612 Comlay, E. (2009) ‘Lehman bust highlights analyst “group-think disease”’. Reuters, 9 September. 
www.reuters.com/article/us-lehman-analysts-analysis-sb-idUKTRE58841R20090909 

613 Psych 424 (2020) ‘How groupthink played a role in the Challenger disaster’. Penn State, 7 
October.
https://sites.psu.edu/aspsy/2020/10/07/how-groupthink-played-a-role-in-the-challenger-
disaster

614 Bush, S. (2022) ‘Why groupthink might be a good thing after all’. Financial Times, 5 July. www.
ft.com/content/f59cd53b-c5ff-494a-b776-defb0cf4cfff (requires subscription)

615 International Telecommunication Union (2022) ‘Statistics: Individuals using the internet’. 
www.itu.
int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Pages/stat/default.aspx 

616 Das, A.C. et al. (2022) ‘Social media as a service differentiator: How to win’. McKinsey & 
Company,
27 April. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-insights/social-media-as-a-service-
differentiator-how-to-win 

617 Kemp, S. (2019) ‘Digital 2019: Global digital overview.’ 31 January. https://datareportal.com/
reports/digital-2019-global-digital-overview 

618 PwC (2022) ‘Perspectives from the global entertainment and media outlook 2022–2026’. www.
pwc.com/gx/en/industries/tmt/media/outlook/outlook-perspectives.html 

619 Ibid.

620 Valuates Reports (2022) ‘Augmented and virtual reality market with COVID-19 impact analysis’.
https://reports.valuates.com/request/sample/ALLI-Auto-4H304/Augmented_and_Virtual_
Reality_Market (requires subscription)

621 PwC (2020) ‘Seeing is believing’. www.pwc.com/m1/en/services/consulting/technology/
emerging-technology/seeing-is-believing-ar-vr-uae.html 

622 Alzahrani, N.M. and Alfouzan, F.A. (2022) ‘Augmented reality (AR) and cyber-security for
smart cities: A systematic literature review’. Sensors, 22(7): 2792. www.mdpi.com/1424-
8220/22/7/2792/htm 

623 The Harris Poll (2021) ‘2021 Norton cyber safety insights report: Global results’. May. https://
now.symassets.com/content/dam/norton/campaign/NortonReport/2021/2021_NortonLifeLock_
Cyber_Safety_Insights_Report_Global_Results.pdf

624 United Nations (2020) ‘Report of the Secretary-General: Roadmap for digital cooperation’.

June. www.un.org/en/content/digital-cooperation-roadmap/assets/pdf/Roadmap_for_Digital_
Cooperation_EN.pdf 

625 Council of Europe (2014) ‘Guide to human rights for internet users’. www.coe.int/en/web/freedom-
expression/guide-to-human-rights-for-internet-users

626 Internet Rights & Principles Coalition (2014) ‘The Charter of Human Rights and Principles for 
the
internet’. Internet Governance Forum and United Nations. www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/
Documents/Issues/Opinion/Communications/InternetPrinciplesAndRightsCoalition.pdf 

627 Practising Law Institute (n.d.) ‘Cybersecurity in the metaverse’. www.pli.edu/programs/C/
cybersecurity-in-the-metaverse (retrieved 16 November 2022)

628 Hoppe, D.B. (2022) ‘United States: Heavy Meta – Privacy and cybersecurity in the metaverse’.
Gamma Law, 10 January. www.mondaq.com/unitedstates/privacy-protection/1150088/heavy-
meta-privacy-and-cybersecurity-in-the-metaverse 

629 PwC (2022) ‘Perspectives from the Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2022–2026’. www.
pwc.com/gx/en/industries/tmt/media/outlook/outlook-perspectives.html 

630 Ibid.

631 Bloomberg UK (2022) ‘Augmented and virtual reality (AR & VR) market to reach USD 454.73
billion by 2030 with a CAGR of 40.7%: Valuates Reports’. 22 June. www.bloomberg.com/press-
releases/2022-06-22/augmented-and-virtual-reality-ar-vr-market-to-reach-usd-454-73-billion-
by-2030-with-a-cagr-of-40-7-valuates-reports 

632 PwC (2020) ‘Seeing is believing: How VR and AR will transform business and the economy globally
and in the UAE’. www.pwc.com/m1/en/services/consulting/technology/emerging-technology/
seeing-is-believing-ar-vr-uae.html 

633 Cheong, B.C. (2022) ‘Avatars in the metaverse: Potential legal issues and remedies’. 
International
Cybersecurity Law Review, 3: 467–94. https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1365/s43439-
022-00056-9.pdf 

634 Ibid.

635 Ibid.

636 Santora, J. (2022) ‘128 social media sites you need to know in 2023’. Influencer Marketing Hub, 
26
November. https://influencermarketinghub.com/social-media-sites/ 

637 Data Reportal (2022) ‘Global social media statistics’. 
https://datareportal.com/social-media-users

638 Ibid.

639 GlobalData (2022) ‘Metaverse market size share, trends, analysis and forecasts … 2022–2030’. 30
September. www.globaldata.com/store/report/metaverse-market-analysis 

640 Ibid.

641 McKinsey & Company (2022) ‘Value creation in the metaverse’. June. www.mckinsey.com/~/
media/mckinsey/business%20functions/marketing%20and%20sales/our%20insights/value%20
creation%20in%20the%20metaverse/Value-creation-in-the-metaverse.pdf

642 Chapple, C. (2022) ‘Top mobile games worldwide for June 2022 by downloads’. Sensor Tower,
July. https://sensortower.com/blog/top-mobile-games-worldwide-june-2022-by-downloads 

643 Not all are necessarily unique.

644 Web Tribunal (2022) ‘How many video games are there? 17 playful stats’. 20 May. https://
webtribunal.net/blog/how-many-video-games-are-there

645 Sharma, A. (2022) ‘MENA gaming market to grow to $5bn by 2025’. The National, 1 June. www.
thenationalnews.com/business/technology/2022/06/01/mena-gaming-market-to-reach-5bn-
by-2025-report-says 


646 McKinsey & Company (2022) ‘McKinsey technology trends outlook 2022: Trust architectures
and digital identity’. August. www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/business%20functions/
mckinsey%20digital/our%20insights/the%20top%20trends%20in%20tech%202022/McKinsey-
Tech-Trends-Outlook-2022-Trust-Arch-DigID.pdf

647 Ibid.

648 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (n.d.) ‘Data protection and privacy
legislation worldwide’. https://unctad.org/page/data-protection-and-privacy-legislation-
worldwide (retrieved 16 November 2022)

649 IBM (2022) ‘Cost of a data breach 2022: A million-dollar race to detect and respond’. www.ibm.
com/reports/data-breach

650 Ibid.

651 Ibid.

652 Detura, R. et al. (2022) ‘A new approach to fighting fraud while enhancing customer experience’.
McKinsey & Company, 8 November. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/risk-and-resilience/our-
insights/a-new-approach-to-fighting-fraud-while-enhancing-customer-experience 

653 Peachey, K. (2021) ‘Scams: Cost of impact on wellbeing calculated as £9bn a year’. BBC News, 18
October. www.bbc.com/news/business-58926333 

654 Aiyer, B. et al. (2022) ‘New survey reveals $2 trillion market opportunity for cybersecurity
technology and service providers’. McKinsey & Company, 27 October. www.mckinsey.com/
capabilities/risk-and-resilience/our-insights/cybersecurity/new-survey-reveals-2-trillion-dollar-
market-opportunity-for-cybersecurity-technology-and-service-providers 

655 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2020) ‘The tokenisation of assets and
potential implications for financial markets’. www.oecd.org/finance/The-Tokenisation-of-Assets-
and-Potential-Implications-for-Financial-Markets.pdf 

656 World Health Organization (2021) ‘Adolescent mental health’. 17 November. www.who.int/news-
room/fact-sheets/detail/adolescent-mental-health

657 Ibid.

658 Ibid.

659 UNESCO (2022) ‘New estimation confirms out-of-school population is growing in sub-Saharan
Africa’. https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000382577

660 Tetzlaff, L, Schmiedek, F. and Brod, G. (2021) ‘Developing Personalized education: A dynamic
framework’. Educational Psychology Review, 33: 863-882. https://link.springer.com/
article/10.1007/s10648-020-09570-w

661 Schoors, R. et al. (2022) ‘The charm or chasm of digital personalized learning in education:
Teachers’ reported use, perceptions and expectations’. TechTrends. https://link.springer.com/
article/10.1007/s11528-022-00802-0

662 Thai, K., Bang, H. and Li, L. (2020) ‘Accelerating Early Math Learning with Research-Based
Personalized Learning Games: A Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial’. Intervention, Evaluation
and  Policy Studies, 15(1): 28-51. www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/19345747.2021.1969710

663 Chavous, K. (2022) ‘Personalized learning makes students masters of their own destiny’. Forbes.
14 April. www.forbes.com/sites/stopaward/2022/04/14/personalized-learning-makes-students-
masters-of-their-own-destiny/?sh=512299057e10

664 PwC (2018) ‘How will automation impact jobs?’ www.pwc.co.uk/services/economics/insights/the-
impact-of-automation-on-jobs.html

665 ASDAABCW (2022) ‘Arab Youth Survey: Charting a new course – 14th annual edition’. http://
arabyouthsurvey.com/wp-content/uploads/whitepaper/ays-2022-top-findings-presentation-en.
pdf

666 International Labour Organization (2022) ‘World employment and social outlook: Trends 2022’.
www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---dgreports/---dcomm/---publ/documents/publication/
wcms_834081.pdf

667 Wong, M. et al. (2021) ‘The longitudinal relationship of school climate with adolescent social 
and
emotional health’. BMC Public Health, 21: 207. https://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/
articles/10.1186/s12889-021-10245-6

668 Zaharija, G., Bogunovic, P. and Mladenovic, S. (2018) ‘Brain computer interface in enhanced
learning system’. In 12th International Technology, Education and Development Conference
Proceedings, 198–205. https://doi.org/10.21125/inted.2018.1029 (requires subscription)

669 US Department of Energy (n.d.) ‘Space-based solar power’. www.energy.gov/maps/space-based-
solar-power (retrieved 21 November 2022)

670 Greenmatch (2022) ‘Space-based solar power: The future source of energy?’ 12 July. www.
greenmatch.co.uk/blog/2020/02/space-based-solar-power

671 International Energy Agency (2022) ‘SDG7: Data and projections’. April. www.iea.org/reports/
sdg7-data-and-projections

672 International Energy Agency (2021) ‘Net zero by 2050: A roadmap for the global energy sector’.

May. www.iea.org/reports/net-zero-by-2050 

673 International Energy Agency (2022) 'Evolution of solar PV module cost by data source, 1970–
2020’. 26 October. www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/charts/evolution-of-solar-pv-module-cost-
by-data-source-1970-2020

674 International Energy Agency (2022) ‘Special report on solar PV global supply chains’. August.
https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/d2ee601d-6b1a-4cd2-a0e8-db02dc64332c/
SpecialReportonSolarPVGlobalSupplyChains.pdf 

675 Ibid.

676 Solar.com (n.d.) ‘How much do solar panels save?’ www.solar.com/learn/how-much-do-solar-
panels-save/ (retrieved 21 November 2022)

677 International Energy Agency (2022) ‘Global energy review: CO2 emissions in 2021 – analysis’.


March. www.iea.org/reports/global-energy-review-co2-emissions-in-2021-2

678 Mounir, E. (2022) ‘Electricity has the largest share of emissions’. Climate Tracker, 4 January.
https://climatetracker.org/electricity-has-the-largest-share-of-emissionshttps://climatetracker.
org/electricity-has-the-largest-share-of-emissions/

679 Clark, S. (2022) ‘Beam me down: Can solar power from space help solve our energy needs?’.

Guardian, 9 October. www.theguardian.com/science/2022/oct/09/beam-me-down-can-solar-
power-from-space-help-solve-our-energy-needs

680 Greenmatch (2022) ‘Space-based solar power: The future source of energy?’ 12 July. www.
greenmatch.co.uk/blog/2020/02/space-based-solar-power 

681 Radulovic, J. (2022) ‘A solar power station in space? Here’s how it would work – and help us 
get to
net zero’. World Economic Forum, 23 March. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/03/a-solar-power-
station-in-space-here-s-how-it-would-work-and-the-benefits-it-could-bring

682 Frazer-Nash Consultancy (2022) ‘Frazer-Nash study shows space-based solar power could bring
billions in benefit to Europe, and address energy vulnerability’. 31 August. www.fnc.co.uk/discover-
frazer-nash/news/frazer-nash-space-based-solar-power-study-addresses-energy-vulnerability

683 Clark, S. (2022) ‘Beam me down: Can solar power from space help solve our energy needs?’.

Guardian, 9 October. www.theguardian.com/science/2022/oct/09/beam-me-down-can-solar-
power-from-space-help-solve-our-energy-needs 

684 Limb, L. (2022) ‘Solar energy can now be stored for up to 18 years, say scientists’. EuroNews, 
30
May. www.euronews.com/green/2022/04/12/solar-energy-can-now-be-stored-for-up-to-18-
years-say-scientists 

685 US Department of Energy (n.d.) ‘Space-based solar power’. www.energy.gov/maps/space-based-
solar-power (retrieved 21 November 2022)

686 National Crime Agency (n.d.) ‘Cyber crime’. www.nationalcrimeagency.gov.uk/what-we-do/crime-
threats/cyber-crime (retrieved 16 November 2022)

687 Hanson, P. (2022) ‘Mental health and your online life’. NortonLifeLock. www.nortonlifelock.com/
blogs/feature-stories/mental-health-online-life

688 Chainalysis (2022) ‘Hackers are stealing more cryptocurrency from DeFi platforms than ever
before’. 14 April. https://blog.chainalysis.com/reports/2022-defi-hacks 

689 Endres, B. (2022) ‘Not your keys, not your crypto: Centralized failure highlights the importance
of DeFi’. Nasdaq, 21 November. www.nasdaq.com/articles/not-your-keys-not-your-crypto%3A-
centralized-failure-highlights-the-importance-of-defi

690 Collard, A. (2022) ‘Crime in the metaverse is very real: But how do we police a world with no
borders or bodies?’ World Economic Forum, 18 August. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/08/
crime-punishment-metaverse 

691 Chainalysis (2022) ‘Hackers are stealing more cryptocurrency from DeFi platforms than ever
before’. 14 April. https://blog.chainalysis.com/reports/2022-defi-hacks 

692 Yazdanparast, E. (2021) ‘All you need to know about DeFi flash loans’. Medium, 28 December.
https://medium.com/coinmonks/all-you-need-to-know-about-defi-flash-loans-ca0ff4592d90 

693 IBM (2022) ‘Cost of a data breach 2022: A million-dollar race to detect and respond’. www.ibm.
com/reports/data-breach 

694 Ibid.

695 Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (2022) ‘Ransomware as a service: Understanding the
cybercrime gig economy and how to protect yourself’. 9 May. www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/
blog/2022/05/09/ransomware-as-a-service-understanding-the-cybercrime-gig-economy-and-
how-to-protect-yourself 

696 Ibid.

697 IBM (2022) ‘Cost of a data breach 2022: A million-dollar race to detect and respond’. www.ibm.
com/reports/data-breach

698 Cheong, B.C. (2022) ‘Avatars in the metaverse: Potential legal issues and remedies’. 
International
Cybersecurity Law Review, 3: 467–94. https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1365/s43439-
022-00056-9.pdf 

699 Panel for the Future of Science and Technology (2021) ‘Liability of online platforms’. European
Parliamentary Research Service, February. www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/
STUD/2021/656318/EPRS_STU(2021)656318_EN.pdf 

700 Cheong, B.C. (2022) ‘Avatars in the metaverse: Potential legal issues and remedies’. 
International
Cybersecurity Law Review, 3: 467–94. https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1365/s43439-
022-00056-9.pdf 

701 Deloitte (2022) ‘Regulatory productivity: Is there an answer to the rising cost of compliance?’
www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/regulatory/articles/cost-of-compliance-regulatory-productivity.
html 

702 Hammond, S. and Cowan, M. (2022) ‘Regulatory intelligence: Cost of compliance 2022 –
Competing priorities’. Thomson Reuters. https://legal.thomsonreuters.com/content/dam/ewp-m/
documents/legal/en/pdf/reports/cost-of-compliance-2022-competing-priorities.pdf

703 World Bank (2022) ‘COVID-19 drives global surge in use of digital payments’. 29 June. www.
worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/06/29/covid-19-drives-global-surge-in-use-of-
digital-payments 

704 Mastercard (2022) ‘Mastercard new payments index 2022: UAE consumers embrace digital
payments’. 2 August. https://newsroom.mastercard.com/mea/press-releases/mastercard-new-
payments-index-2022-uae-consumers-embrace-digital-payments 

705 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (2022) ‘Digital trade: Opportunities and
actions for developing countries’. January. https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/


presspb2021d10_en.pdf

706 Ibid.

707 Morgan Stanley (2022) ‘Here’s why e-commerce growth can stay stronger for longer’. 14 June.
www.morganstanley.com/ideas/global-ecommerce-growth-forecast-2022 

708 Market and Data Forecast (2022) ‘Global fintech market research report’. January. www.
marketdataforecast.com/market-reports/fintech-market 

709 Research and Markets (2022) ‘Global smart sensor market forecast to 2028: Development of
smart cities presents opportunities’. GlobalNewswire, 29 June. www.globenewswire.com/en/
news-release/2022/06/29/2470993/28124/en/Global-Smart-Sensor-Market-Forecast-to-2028-
Development-of-Smart-Cities-Presents-Opportunities.html

710 Vantage Market Research (2022) ‘Radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags market to
hit USD 17.6 million by 2028: Radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags industry CAGR of

9.7% between 2022–2028’. GlobalNewswire, 22 June. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-
release/2022/06/22/2466919/0/en/Radio-Frequency-Identification-RFID-Tags-Market-to-Hit-
USD-17-6-Million-by-2028-Radio-Frequency-Identification-RFID-Tags-Industry-CAGR-of-9-7-
Between-2022-2028-Exclusive-Insight-Re.html 

711  Research and Markets (2022) ‘Middle East and Africa smart sensors market forecast to 2028’.

August. www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/5647440/middle-east-and-africa-smart-
sensors-market 

712 Technavio (2022) ‘Smart sensors market in UAE by technology and application: Forecast and
analysis 2022–2026’. February. www.technavio.com/report/smart-sensors-market-industry-in-
uae-analysis 

713 Zhao, Y., Zhang, W. and Huang, R. (2022) ‘The mechanism of blockchain technology influencing
management accounting’. In ASSE' 22: 2022 3rd Asia Service Sciences and Software Engineering
Conference, 21–9. https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3523181.3523185 

714 Tettamanzi, P., Venturini, G. and Murgolo, M. (2022) ‘Sustainability and financial accounting: A
critical review on the ESG dynamics’. Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 29: 16758–
61. https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11356-022-18596-2 

715 United Nations (n.d.) ‘System of environmental economic accounting’. https://seea.un.org 
(retrieved 16 November 2022)

716 Varzaru, A.A. (2022) ‘Assessing artificial intelligence technology acceptance in managerial
accounting’. Electronics, 11(14): 2256. www.mdpi.com/2079-9292/11/14/2256 

717 Hung, P. (2022) ‘E-commerce trends 2022: What the future holds’. Forbes, 14 March. www.forbes.
com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/03/14/e-commerce-trends-2022-what-the-future-holds 

718 Morgan Stanley (2022) ‘Here’s Why E-Commerce Growth Can Stay Stronger for Longer’. 14 June.
www.morganstanley.com/ideas/global-ecommerce-growth-forecast-2022

719 Goodchild, A. and Verma, R. (2022) ‘How many Amazon packages get delivered each year?’
The Conversation, 17 October. https://theconversation.com/how-many-amazon-packages-get-
delivered-each-year-187587 

720 Pitney Bowes (n.d) ‘Pitney Bowes Shipping Index?’ www.pitneybowes.com/us/shipping-index.
html (retrieved 13 December 2022)

721 Ibid.

722 Ibid.

723 Saner, E. (2020) ‘Delivery disaster: The hidden environmental cost of your online shopping’.
Guardian, 17 February. www.theguardian.com/news/shortcuts/2020/feb/17/hidden-costs-of-
online-delivery-environment 

724 Doi, T. et al. (2021) ‘Efficient and sustainable last-mile logistics: Lessons from Japan’. 
McKinsey
& Company, 13 May. www.mckinsey.com/industries/travel-logistics-and-infrastructure/our-
insights/efficient-and-sustainable-last-mile-logistics-lessons-from-japan 

725 Bringg (2022) ‘Bringg Barometer: The State of Retail Delivery & Fulfilment’. https://f.
hubspotusercontent10.net/hubfs/4604917/2022/Bringg_Barometer_2022.pdf 

726 World Economic Forum (2020) ‘The future of the last-mile ecosystem’. 10 January. www.weforum.
org/reports/the-future-of-the-last-mile-ecosystem 

727 Ward, P. (2018) ‘The Curious Pneumatic Tubes of New York City’. 14 March. https://medium.com/
the-omnivore/the-curious-pneumatic-tubes-of-new-york-city-26b793991188

728 3M (n.d.) ‘3M research & development’. www.3m.com/3M/en_US/company-us/about-3m/
research-development (retrieved 17 November 2022)

729 Hitachi Group (n.d.) ‘An R&D strategy to accelerate the global creation of value’. 
www.hitachi.com/
rd/about/index.html (retrieved 17 November 2022)

730 Science and Industry Museum (2021) ‘Graphene: A new way of thinking about materials’. 25
November. www.scienceandindustrymuseum.org.uk/objects-and-stories/graphene 

731 McKinsey & Company (n.d.) ‘Sustainable Materials Hub’. McKinsey Sustainability. www.mckinsey.
com/capabilities/sustainability/how-we-help-clients/sustainable-materials-hub (retrieved 17

November 2022)

732 Vehicles Technologies Office, US Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (n.d.)
‘Lightweight materials for cars and trucks’. www.energy.gov/eere/vehicles/lightweight-materials-
cars-and-trucks (retrieved 17 November 2022)

733 Ibid.

734 Ibid.

735 US Energy Information Administration (2022) ‘How much gasoline does the United States
consume?’ 15 March. www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=23&t=10 

736 Zhu, L., Li, N. and Childs, P. (2019) ‘Lightweighting in Aerospace Component and System


Design’. Tech Briefs. 1 March. www.techbriefs.com/component/content/article/tb/pub/features/
articles/33914

737 Precedence Research (2022) ‘Lightweight materials market size to surpass USD

278.9 bn by 2030’. GlobeNewswire, 14 August. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-
release/2022/08/14/2497890/0/en/Lightweight-Materials-Market-Size-to-Surpass-USD-278-
9-Bn-by-2030.html 

738 Rothemund, P. et al. (2021) ‘Shaping the future of robotics through materials innovation’. 
Nature
Materials 20: 1582–7. www.nature.com/articles/s41563-021-01158-1 

739 The Advanced Materials Show (2020) ‘How and where the advanced material industry is set to
grow’. https://advancedmaterialsshow.com/app/uploads/2020/05/eBook-Industry_insight-
AMS2020.pdf 

740 Market Research Future (2022) ‘Robotics market size to cross USD 214.68 billion by 2030,
growing at a CAGR of 22.8%’. GlobeNewswire, 21 April. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-
release/2022/04/21/2426169/0/en/Robotics-Market-Size-to-Cross-USD-214-68-Billion-by-
2030-Growing-at-a-CAGR-of-22-8-Report-by-Market-Research-Future-MRFR.html 

741 Industry Research (2022) ‘Global smart materials market outlook to 2027’. GlobeNewswire, 25
February. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2022/02/25/2392179/0/en/Global-Smart-
Materials-Market-Outlook-to-2027-North-America-Having-Largest-33-Market-Share-Followed-
By-Europe-about-32-Industry-Size-Share-Growth-Drivers-Restraints-Opportunities-P.html 

742 Precedence Research (2022) ‘Nanomaterials market size to worth around US$ 43.1 bn by 2030’.

GlobeNewswire, 17 June. www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2022/06/17/2464947/0/en/
Nanomaterials-Market-Size-to-Worth-Around-US-43-1-Bn-by-2030.html 

743 ScienceDaily (2021) ‘Advanced materials in a snap’. 5 January. www.sciencedaily.com/
releases/2021/01/210105130129.htm 

744 Green, M.L., Maruyama, B. and Schrier, J. (2022) ‘Autonomous (AI-driven) materials science’.
Applied Physics Reviews, 9(3): 030401. https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/5.0118872

745 Gao, C. et al. (2022) ‘Innovative materials science via machine learning’. Advanced Functional
Materials, 32(1): 2108044. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/adfm.202108044

746 Liu, Y. et al. (2021) ‘Machine learning for advanced energy material’. Energy and AI, 3: 100049.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyai.2021.100049

747 Pyzer-Knapp, E.O. et al. (2022) ‘Accelerating materials discovery using artificial 
intelligence, high
performance computing and robotics’. NPJ Computational Materials, 8: 84. www.nature.com/
articles/s41524-022-00765-z 

748 Broitman, A., Hunter, E. and Schmidt, J. (2021) ‘Digitally native brands: Born digital, but 
ready to
take on the world’. McKinsey & Company, 27 October. www.mckinsey.com/industries/private-
equity-and-principal-investors/our-insights/digitally-native-brands-born-digital-but-ready-to-
take-on-the-world 

749 Ibid.

750 Ibid.

751 Kemp, S. (2022) ‘Digital 2022: Global overview report’. DataReportal, 26 January. https://
datareportal.com/reports/digital-2022-global-overview-report 

752 Ibid.

753 Ibid.

754 Buchholz, K. (2022) ‘Which countries spend the most time on social media?’ World Economic
Forum, 29 April. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/social-media-internet-connectivity

755 Ibid.

756 PwC (2022) ‘Employment status in the gig economy: 2022 survey’. www.pwc.co.uk/services/
legal/insights/employment-status-in-gig-economy-2022-survey.html

757 Wiessner, D., Bose, N. and Shepardson, D. (2022) ‘Biden labor proposal shakes up gig economy
that relies on contractors’ Reuters, 12 October. www.reuters.com/world/us/new-biden-labor-rule-
would-make-contractors-into-employees-2022-10-11 

758 Mastercard (2020) ‘Fueling the global gig economy’. August. www.mastercard.us/content/dam/
public/mastercardcom/na/us/en/documents/mastercard-fueling-the-global-gig-economy-2020.
pdf 

759 Tay, P. and Large, O. (2022) ‘Making it work: Understanding the economy’s shortcomings and
opportunities’. Tony Blair Institute for Global Change, 12 April. https://institute.global/sites/
default/files/articles/Making-It-Work-Understanding-the-Gig-Economy-s-Shortcomings-and-
Opportunities.pdf

760 Mastercard and Kaiser Associates (2019) ‘The global gig economy: Capitalizing on a ~$500B
opportunity’. May. https://newsroom.mastercard.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Gig-
Economy-White-Paper-May-2019.pdf

761 Ibid.

762 Eithan, N.A. (2021) ‘How the gig economy is disrupting the region’s startup ecosystem’. Wamda,
29 July. www.wamda.com/2021/07/gig-economy-disrupting-regions-startup-ecosystem 

763 Farouk, M. (2021) ‘Egypt wants to register millions of gig workers for state insurance, aid’ 
Reuters.

1 March. www.reuters.com/article/egypt-workers-pay-idUSL5N2KY0M4

764 Mastercard and Kaiser Associates (2019) ‘The global gig economy: Capitalizing on a ~$500B
opportunity’. https://newsroom.mastercard.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Gig-Economy-
White-Paper-May-2019.pdf 

765 Wilkins, M. (1998) ‘Multinational corporations: An historical account’. In Kozul-Wright, R. and
Rowthorn, R. (eds) Transnational Corporations and the Global Economy, (London: Palgrave
Macmillan, 95–133). https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-349-26523-7_4 

766 Prasad, M.K. and Castro, A. (2018) ‘Is GDP an adequate measure of development?’ International
Growth Centre, 17 October. www.theigc.org/blog/is-gdp-an-adequate-measure-of-development


767 World Economic Forum (2020) ‘Global competitiveness report special edition 2020: How countries
are performing on the road to recovery’. 16 December. www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-
competitiveness-report-2020

768 Legatum Institute (2021) ‘2021 legatum prosperity index’. 15 November. https://li.com/
reports/2021-legatum-prosperity-index

769 World Intellectual Property Organization (2021) ‘Global Innovation Index 2021: Which are the 
most
innovative countries?’ 20 September. www.wipo.int/global_innovation_index/en/2021/index.html 

770 Tayan, B. (2022) ‘ESG ratings: A compass without direction’. Harvard Law School Forum on
Corporate Governance, 24 August. https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2022/08/24/esg-ratings-a-
compass-without-direction

771 McClure, T. (2021) ‘New Zealand’s “wellbeing budget” made headlines, but what really changed?’
The Guardian, 10 April. www.theguardian.com/world/2021/apr/10/new-zealands-wellbeing-
budget-made-headlines-but-what-really-changed 

772 Stats New Zealand (2021) ‘Wellbeing statistics’. www.stats.govt.nz/topics/well-being

773 The Official Portal of the UAE Government (n.d.) ‘Happiness’. https://u.ae/en/about-the-uae/the-
uae-government/government-of-future/happiness (retrieved 13 December 2022)

774 United Arab Emirates University (n.d.) ‘Emirates Center for Happiness Research’. www.uaeu.
ac.ae/en/research/centers/echr/overview.shtml (retrieved 13 December 2022)

775 World Bank (2021) ‘GDP (current US$)’. https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.MKTP.CD

776 World Economic Forum (2020) ‘New nature economy report series’. 14 July. www.weforum.org/
reports/new-nature-economy-report-series 

777 Callen, T. (2022) ‘Gross domestic product: An economy’s all’. International Monetary Fund 
Finance
and Development, 15 June. www.imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/Series/Back-to-Basics/
gross-domestic-product-GDP

778 PwC (2017) ‘The long view: How will the global economic order change by 2050?’ February. www.
pwc.com/gx/en/world-2050/assets/pwc-the-world-in-2050-full-report-feb-2017.pdf

779 Westmaas, R. (2019) ‘There may be a massive ocean beneath the earth’s surface’. Discovery, 1
August. www.discovery.com/science/Massive-Ocean-Beneath-Earths-Surface 

780 Brookhaven National Laboratory (2014) ‘New evidence for oceans of water deep in the earth’. 13
June. www.bnl.gov/newsroom/news.php?a=111648 

781 Ibid.

782 Library of Congress (n.d.) ‘Oil and gas industry: A research guide’. 
https://guides.loc.gov/oil-and-
gas-industry/upstream (retrieved 21 November 2022)

783 Ibid.

784 Kaiser, M.J. (2021) ‘A review of exploration, development, and production cost offshore
Newfoundland’. Natural Resources Research, 30(2): 1253–90. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11053-
020-09784-3

785 World Bank (2022) ‘Mineral-rich developing countries can drive a net-zero future’. 6 June. www.
worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2022/06/06/mineral-rich-developing-countries-can-drive-a-
net-zero-future

786 International Energy Agency (2022) ‘The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions’.
https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/ffd2a83b-8c30-4e9d-980a-52b6d9a86fdc/
TheRoleofCriticalMineralsinCleanEnergyTransitions.pdf

787 National Academy of Sciences (n.d.) ‘History: Project Mohole, 1958–1966’ www.nasonline.org/
about-nas/history/archives/milestones-in-NAS-history/project-mohole.html (retrieved 24

November 2022)

788 Michigan State University (2018) ‘Mantle minerals offer clues to deep Earth’s composition ‘. 2 
April.
https://msutoday.msu.edu/news/2018/mantle-minerals-offer-clues-to-deep-earths-composition

789 National Academy of Sciences (n.d.) ‘History: Project Mohole photo gallery’ www.nasonline.org/
about-nas/history/archives/milestones-in-NAS-history/project-mohole-photo-gallery.html
(retrieved 24 November 2022)

790 Witze, A. (2019) ‘Japanese drill ship fails to reach the earthquake-generating zone’. Nature 
570: 15.
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-01551-6 

791 Stierwalt, S. (2020) ‘How deep is the deepest hole in the world?’ Scientific American, 22 
February.
www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-deep-is-the-deepest-hole-in-the-world

792 McRae, M. (2022) ‘Radical plan to make earth’s deepest hole could unleash limitless energy’.
ScienceAlert, 9 March. www.sciencealert.com/confidence-grows-in-mit-spin-off-aiming-to-
make-the-deepest-hole-for-limitless-energy

793 Notman, N. (2022) ‘Drilling deep to discover the secrets of the mantle’. Royal Society of 
Chemistry,
14 February. www.chemistryworld.com/features/drilling-deep-to-discover-the-secrets-of-the-
mantle/4015054.article 

794 Ibid.

795 Olah, L., Tanaka, H.K.M. and Varga, D. (2022) ‘High-definition imaging of the subsurface with
cosmic ray muons’. Eos, 14 February. https://eos.org/editors-vox/high-definition-imaging-of-the-
subsurface-with-cosmic-ray-muons

796 Tonai, S. et al. (2019) ‘A new method for quality control of geological cores by X-ray computed
tomography: Application in IODP Expedition 370’. Frontiers in Earth Science, 31 May. www.
frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/feart.2019.00117/full 

797 Frontiers in Earth Science (n.d.) ‘Recent advancements in X-ray and neutron imaging of dynamic
processes in earth sciences’. www.frontiersin.org/research-topics/8649/recent-advancements-
in-x-ray-and-neutron-imaging-of-dynamic-processes-in-earth-sciences (retrieved 23 November
2022)

798 US Energy Information Administration (2021) ‘EIA projects nearly 50% increase in world energy
use by 2050, led by growth in renewables’. 7 October. www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.


php?id=49876 

799 Hargreaves, J.J. and Jones, R.A. (2020) ‘Long term energy storage in highly renewable systems’.

Frontiers in Energy Research, 8, 3 September. https://doi.org/10.3389/fenrg.2020.00219

800 Ibid.

801 Edwards, P., Dobson, P. and Owen, G. (2022) ‘Why we need to tackle renewable energy’s
storage problem’. PhysicsWorld, 26 April. https://physicsworld.com/a/why-we-need-to-tackle-
renewable-energys-storage-problem

802 Emergen Research (2022) ‘Space launch services market’. May. www.emergenresearch.com/
industry-report/space-launch-services-market 

803 Witze, A. (2022) ‘The $93-billion plan to put astronauts back on the Moon’. Nature, 605: 212–16.
www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-01253-6

804 China National Space Administration (2021) ‘International Lunar Research Station (ILRS) guide 
for
partnership’. 16 June. www.cnsa.gov.cn/english/n6465652/n6465653/c6812150/content.html 

805 Pickrell, J. (2022) ‘These six countries are about to go to the moon: Here’s why’. Nature 605: 
208–

11. www.nature.com/articles/d41586-022-01252-7 

806 Nelson, B. (2022) ‘How Space Tourism Will Change the World’. Reader’s Digest, 24 November.
www.rd.com/article/space-tourism/

807 Abdisattar, A. et al. (2022) ‘Recent advances and challenges of current collectors for
supercapacitors’. Electrochemistry Communications, 142: 107373. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
elecom.2022.107373

808 Precedence Research (2022) ‘Supercapacitors market’. www.precedenceresearch.com/
supercapacitors-market 

809 Global Compact (2004) ‘Who cares wins: Connecting financial markets to a challenging
world’. www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/de954acc-504f-4140-91dc-d46cf063b1ec/
WhoCaresWins_2004.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-de954acc-504f-

4140-91dc-d46cf063b1ec-jqeE.mD

810 Ibid.

811  Perez, L. et al. (2022) ‘Does ESG really matter – and why?’ McKinsey & Company, 10 August. www.
mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/does-esg-really-matter-and-why

812 Bloomberg (2022) ‘ESG may surpass $41 trillion assets in 2022, but not without challenges, finds
Bloomberg Intelligence’. 24 January. www.bloomberg.com/company/press/esg-may-surpass-41-
trillion-assets-in-2022-but-not-without-challenges-finds-bloomberg-intelligence

813 Ibid.

814 Ibid.

815 Ibid.

816 Perez, L. et al. (2022) ‘Does ESG really matter – and why?’ McKinsey & Company, 10 August. www.
mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/does-esg-really-matter-and-why

817 Bloomberg (2022) ‘ESG may surpass $41 trillion assets in 2022, but not without challenges, finds
Bloomberg Intelligence’. 24 January. www.bloomberg.com/company/press/esg-may-surpass-41-
trillion-assets-in-2022-but-not-without-challenges-finds-bloomberg-intelligence

818 Perez, L. et al. (2022) ‘Does ESG really matter – and why?’ McKinsey & Company, 10 August. www.
mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/does-esg-really-matter-and-why

819 Steinhaeuser, I. (2022) ‘How regulations are moving ESG into the risk and compliance field’.

Thomson Reuters, 5 August. www.thomsonreuters.com/en-us/posts/investigation-fraud-and-
risk/esg-regulations-compliance

820 PwC (2022) ‘Reimagining our region through ESG: The 2022 Middle East Report’. www.pwc.com/
m1/en/esg/documents/esg-middle-east-survey-report.pdf

821 Kairouz, M. (2022) ‘MENA must be a leader in climate action and the pursuit of net-zero: Here’s
how’. World Economic Forum, 9 November. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/11/mena-must-be-a-
leader-in-climate-action-and-the-pursuit-of-net-zero-here-s-how

822 PwC (2022) ‘Reimagining our region through ESG: The 2022 Middle East Report’. www.pwc.com/
m1/en/esg/documents/esg-middle-east-survey-report.pdf

823 PwC (2021) ‘Middle East Family Business Survey 2021: Diversifying, investing and digitising’. 
www.
pwc.com/m1/en/publications/family-business-survey/2021/documents/middle-east-family-
business-survey-2021.pdf

824 Ibid.

825 Perez, L. et al. (2022) ‘How to make ESG real’. McKinsey & Company, 10 August. www.mckinsey.
com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/how-to-make-esg-real

826 PwC (n.d.) ‘ESG reporting and preparation of a sustainability report’. www.pwc.com/sk/en/
environmental-social-and-corporate-governance-esg/esg-reporting.html (retrieved 29 November
2022)

827 Global Reporting Initiative (2021) ‘The GRI perspective: ESG standards, frameworks and
everything in between’. 10 March. www.globalreporting.org/media/jxkgrggd/gri-perspective-esg-
standards-frameworks.pdf

828 Ibid.

829 De Smet, A., Gagnon, C. and Mygatt, E. (2021) ‘Organizing for the future: Nine keys to becoming
a future-ready company’. McKinsey & Company, 11 January. www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/
people-and-organizational-performance/our-insights/organizing-for-the-future-nine-keys-to-
becoming-a-future-ready-company

830 Phys.Org (2022) ‘Three scientists share Nobel Prize in Physics for work in quantum mechanics’. 4
October. https://phys.org/news/2022-10-scientists-nobel-prize-physics-quantum.html 

831 Liu, T. (2020) ‘The applications and challenges of quantum teleportation’. Journal
of Physics: Conference Series, 1634(1): 012089. https://iopscience.iop.org/
article/10.1088/1742-6596/1634/1/012089/pdf


832 McKinsey & Company (2022) ‘Quantum technology monitor’. June. www.mckinsey.com/~/
media/mckinsey/business%20functions/mckinsey%20digital/our%20insights/quantum%20
computing%20funding%20remains%20strong%20but%20talent%20gap%20raises%20concern/
quantum-technology-monitor.pdf

833 Ibid.

834 Ibid.

835 Ibid.

836 Ibid.

837 Kung, J. and Fancy, M. (2021) ‘A Quantum revolution: Report on global policies for quantum
technology’. CIFAR. https://cifar.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/quantum-report-EN-10-
accessible.pdf

838 Ibid.

839 Read, S. (2022) ‘These are the world’s top 10 fastest supercomputers’. World Economic Forum, 21
June. www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/06/fastest-supercomputers-frontier-exascale 

840 Ibid.

841 IBM (2022) ‘Our new 2022 development roadmap’. www.ibm.com/quantum/roadmap

842 IBM (n.d.) ‘Qiskit Runtime’. www.ibm.com/quantum/qiskit-runtime (retrieved 21 November 2022)

843 Djordjevic, I. B. (2021) ‘Chapter 3: Quantum circuits and modules’. In I.B. Djordjevic, Quantum
Information Processing, Quantum Computing, and Quantum Error Correction (2nd edn) (London:
Academic Press, 97–124). https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-821982-9.00003-4

844 Hawkins, J. (2022) ‘NASA used hologram tech to "teleport" a doctor onto the ISS’. BGR Media. 19
April. https://bgr.com/science/nasa-used-hologram-tech-to-teleport-a-doctor-onto-the-iss/ 

845 Next by ERGO (2022) ‘Holographic teleportation allows for virtual meetings without avatars’.
https://next.ergo.com/en/Trends/2022/holographic-teleportation-holoport-VR-AR-meeting-
medical-technology-digital-health-spaceflight

846 Open Mind (2019) ‘Teleportation is here, but it’s not what we expected’. 29 October. www.
bbvaopenmind.com/en/science/physics/teleportation-is-here-but-its-not-what-we-expected

847 Capellmann, H. (2021) ‘Space-time in quantum theory’. Foundations of Physics, 51: 44. https://
link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10701-021-00441-0


ABOUT THE 
DUBAI FUTURE FOUNDATION 

ABOUT THE DUBAI
FUTURE FOUNDATION


dubaifuture.ae
research@dubaifuture.gov.ae

@dubaifuture

Dubai Future Foundation aims to realise the vision of His Highness
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime
Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, for the future of Dubai and
consolidate its global status as a leading city of the future. In partnership
with  its partners from government entities, international companies,
start-ups and entrepreneurs in the UAE and around the world, Dubai
Future Foundation drives joint efforts to collectively imagine, design

and execute the future of Dubai.

Under the supervision and with the support of His Highness Sheikh
Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai,
Chairman of the Executive Council of Dubai and Chairman of the Board
of Trustees of Dubai Future Foundation, DFF works on a three-pronged
strategy: to imagine, design and execute the future. It does

this through the development and launch of national and global
programmes and initiatives, preparing plans and strategies for the
future, issuing foresight reports and supporting innovative and
qualitative projects. These contribute to positioning Dubai as a global
capital for the development and adoption of the latest innovative
solutions and practices to serve humanity.

Dubai Future Foundation focuses on identifying the most prominent
challenges facing cities, communities and sectors in the future and
transforming them into promising growth opportunities by collecting
and analysing data, studying global trends and keeping pace with and
preparing for rapid changes. It is also looking at future sectors, their
integration and the reshaping of current industries.

Dubai Future Foundation oversees many pioneering projects and
initiatives, such as the Museum of the Future, Area 2071, The Centre
for    the Fourth Industrial Revolution UAE, Dubai Future Accelerators,
One Million Arab Coders, Dubai Future District, Dubai Future Solutions,
Dubai Future Forum, Dubai Metaverse Assembly. Its many knowledge
initiatives and future design centres contribute to building specialised
local talents for future requirements and empowering them with the
necessary skills to contribute to the sustainable development of Dubai.


DISCLAIMER 

DISCLAIMER

This report was prepared for informational, educational and guidance
purposes. It includes several future directions based on studies and
research that should not necessarily be adopted or implemented.

Dubai Future Foundation disclaims all liability related to the content
and use of the report.

Copyright © 2023 Dubai Future Foundation. All rights reserved.

All material in this report is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International Public License (‘Creative Commons
License’), save for content supplied by third parties, logos and any
material protected by trademark or otherwise noted in this report. The
Creative Commons License is a standard form licence agreement that
allows you to copy, distribute, transmit and adapt this report provided
you attribute the work and is available at:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

A full list of third-party information and resources included in this
report are listed in the Bibliography and References. This notice also
specifically excludes the DUBAI FUTURE FOUNDATION word and logo
trademarks from the scope of this Creative Commons License.

RECOMMENDED CITATION

Dubai Future Foundation (2023) ‘Future Opportunities Report:
The Global 50’. Dubai.


Copyright © 2023 Dubai Future Foundation. All rights reserved.

DUBAIFUTURE. AE 

